Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003454.htm    
                                Description: The mononucleosis spot test looks for 2 antibodies in the blood. These antibodies appear during or after an infection with the virus that causes mononucleosis, or mono.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mononucleosis spot test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003454.htm

# Mononucleosis spot test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The mononucleosis spot test looks for 2 antibodies in the blood. These
antibodies appear during or after an infection with the virus that causes
mononucleosis, or mono.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The mononucleosis spot test is done when symptoms of mononucleosis are
present. Common symptoms include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Large spleen (possibly)
    * Sore throat
    * Tender lymph nodes along the back of the neck 

This test looks for antibodies called heterophile antibodies which form in the
body during the infection.

## Normal Results

A negative test means there were no heterophile antibodies detected. Most of
the time this means you do not have infectious mononucleosis.

Sometimes, the test may be negative because it was done too soon (within 1 to
2 weeks) after the illness started. Your health care provider may repeat the
test to make sure you do not have mono.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test means heterophile antibodies are present. These are most often
a sign of mononucleosis. Your provider will also consider other blood test
results and your symptoms. A small number of people with mononucleosis may
never have a positive test.

The highest number of antibodies occurs 2 to 5 weeks after mono begins. They
may be present for up to 1 year.

In rare cases, the test is positive even though you do not have mono. This is
called a false-positive result, and it may occur in people with:

    * Hepatitis
    * Leukemia or lymphoma
    * Rubella
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Toxoplasmosis

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Monospot test; Heterophile antibody test; Heterophile agglutination test;
Paul-Bunnell test; Forssman antibody test

## Images

    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1456t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells
    * ![Mononucleosis - view of the throat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2936t.jpg)Mononucleosis - view of the throat
    * ![Throat swabs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9950t.jpg)Throat swabs

## References

Johannsen EC, Kaye KM. Epstein-Barr virus (infectious mononucleosis, Epstein-
Barr virus--associated malignant diseases, and other diseases). In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 141.

Schooley RT. Epstein-Barr virus infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 377.

Weber R. Pharyngitis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:50-52.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infectious
Mononucleosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousMononucleosis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Mononucleosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

