Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003531.htm    
                                Description: Anti-smooth muscle antibody is a blood test that detects the presence of antibodies against smooth muscle. The antibody is useful in making a diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-smooth muscle antibody

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003531.htm

# Anti-smooth muscle antibody

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anti-smooth muscle antibody is a blood test that detects the presence of
antibodies against smooth muscle. The antibody is useful in making a diagnosis
of autoimmune hepatitis.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This may be taken through a vein. The procedure is
called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others may feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have signs of certain liver diseases, such as
hepatitis and cirrhosis. These conditions can trigger the body to form
antibodies against smooth muscle.

Anti-smooth muscle antibodies are not often seen in diseases other than
autoimmune hepatitis. Therefore, it is helpful to make the diagnosis.
Autoimmune hepatitis is treated with immunosuppressive medicines. People with
autoimmune hepatitis often have other autoantibodies. These include:

    * Antinuclear antibodies.
    * Anti-actin antibodies.
    * Anti-soluble liver antigen/liver pancreas (anti-SLA/LP) antibodies.
    * Other antibodies may be present, even when the anti-smooth muscle antibodies are absent.

The diagnosis and management of autoimmune hepatitis may require a liver
biopsy.

## Normal Results

Normally, there are no antibodies present.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test may be due to:

    * Chronic active autoimmune hepatitis
    * Cirrhosis
    * Infectious mononucleosis

The test also helps distinguish autoimmune hepatitis from systemic lupus
erythematosus.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Types of muscle tissue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19917t.jpg)Types of muscle tissue

## References

Czaja AJ. Autoimmune hepatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

Ferri FF. Laboratory values and interpretation of results. In: Ferri FF, ed.
_Ferri's Best Test: A Practical Guide to Clinical Laboratory Medicine and
Diagnostic Imaging_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:129-227.

Manns MP, Lohse AW, Vergani D. Autoimmune hepatitis--Update 2015. _J Hepatol_.
2015;62(1 Suppl):S100-S111. PMID: 25920079
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25920079.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![Infectious
Mononucleosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousMononucleosis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Mononucleosis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

