Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000591.htm    
                                Description: Mononucleosis, or mono, is a viral infection that causes fever, sore throat, and swollen lymph glands, most often in the neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mononucleosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000591.htm

# Mononucleosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mononucleosis, or mono, is a viral infection that causes fever, sore throat,
and swollen lymph glands, most often in the neck.

## Causes

Mono is often spread by saliva and close contact. It is known as "the kissing
disease." Mono occurs most often in people ages 15 to 17, but the infection
may develop at any age.

Mono is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Rarely, it is caused by other
viruses, such as cytomegalovirus (CMV).

## Symptoms

Mono may begin slowly with fatigue, a general ill feeling, headache, and sore
throat. The sore throat slowly gets worse. Your tonsils become swollen and
develop a whitish-yellow covering. Often, the lymph nodes in the neck are
swollen and painful.

A pink, measles-like rash can occur, and is more likely if you take the
medicine ampicillin or amoxicillin for a throat infection. (Antibiotics are
typically not given without a test that shows you have a strep infection.)

Common symptoms of mono include:

    * Drowsiness
    * Fever
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling
    * Loss of appetite
    * Muscle aches or stiffness
    * Rash
    * Sore throat
    * Swollen lymph nodes, most often in the neck and armpit 

Less common symptoms are:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Hives
    * Jaundice (yellow color to the skin and whites of the eyes)
    * Neck stiffness
    * Nosebleed
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you. They may find:

    * Swollen lymph nodes in the front and back of your neck
    * Swollen tonsils with a whitish-yellow covering
    * Swollen liver or spleen
    * Skin rash 

Blood tests will be done, including:

    * White blood cell (WBC) count: will be higher than normal if you have mono
    * Monospot test: will be positive for infectious mononucleosis 
    * Antibody titer: tells the difference between a current and past infection 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms. Steroid medicine (prednisone)
may be given if your symptoms are severe.

Antiviral drugs, such as acyclovir, have little or no benefit.

To relieve typical symptoms:

    * Drink plenty of fluids.
    * Gargle with warm salt water to ease a sore throat.
    * Get plenty of rest.
    * Take acetaminophen or ibuprofen for pain and fever. 

Also avoid contact sports if your spleen is swollen (to prevent it from
rupturing).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The fever usually drops in 10 days, and swollen lymph glands and spleen heal
in 4 weeks. Tiredness usually goes away within a few weeks, but it may linger
for 2 to 3 months.

## Possible Complications

Complications of mononucleosis may include:

    * Anemia, which occurs when red blood cells in the blood die sooner than normal
    * Hepatitis with jaundice (more common in people older than 35)
    * Swollen or inflamed testicles
    * Nervous system problems (rare), such as Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome, meningitis, seizures, damage to the nerve that controls movement of the muscles in the face (Bell palsy), and uncoordinated movements
    * Spleen rupture (rare, avoid pressure on the spleen)
    * Skin rash (uncommon) 

Death is possible in people who have a weakened immune system.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The early symptoms of mono feel very much like any other illness caused by a
virus. You do not need to contact a provider unless your symptoms last longer
than 10 days or you develop:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Persistent high fevers (more than 101.5Â°F or 38.6Â°C)
    * Severe headache
    * Severe sore throat or swollen tonsils
    * Weakness in your arms or legs
    * Yellow color in your eyes or skin 

Call 911 or go to an emergency room if you develop:

    * Sharp, sudden, severe abdominal pain 
    * Stiff neck or severe weakness 
    * Trouble swallowing or breathing 

## Prevention

People with mono may be contagious while they have symptoms and for up to a
few months afterwards. How long someone with the disease is contagious varies.
The virus can live for several hours outside the body. Avoid kissing or
sharing utensils if you or someone close to you has mono.

## Alternative Names

Mono; Kissing disease; Glandular fever

## Images

    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1456t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells
    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1457t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells
    * ![Infectious mononucleosis #3](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1458t.jpg)Infectious mononucleosis #3
    * ![Acrodermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17003t.jpg)Acrodermatitis
    * ![Splenomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17212t.jpg)Splenomegaly
    * ![Infectious mononucleosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23227t.jpg)Infectious mononucleosis
    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2275t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cell
    * ![Gianotti-Crosti syndrome on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2766t.jpg)Gianotti-Crosti syndrome on the leg
    * ![Mononucleosis - view of the throat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2936t.jpg)Mononucleosis - view of the throat
    * ![Mononucleosis - mouth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3088t.jpg)Mononucleosis - mouth
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Ebell MH, Call M, Shinholser J, Gardner J. Does this patient have infectious
mononucleosis?: the rational clinical examination systematic review. _JAMA_.
2016;315(14):1502-1509. PMID: 2711526 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27115266.

Jenson HB. Epstein-Barr virus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 254.

Johannsen EC, Kaye KM. Epstein-Barr virus (infectious mononucleosis, Epstein-
Barr virus-associated malignant diseases, and other diseases). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_ , _Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 141.

Katz BZ. Infectious mononucleosis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018;551-552.

Schooley RT. Epstein-Barr virus infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 377.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infectious
Mononucleosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousMononucleosis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Mononucleosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

