Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000334.htm    
                                Description: Fanconi anemia is a rare disease passed down through families (inherited) that mainly affects the bone marrow. It results in decreased production of all types of blood cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fanconi anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000334.htm

# Fanconi anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fanconi anemia is a rare disease passed down through families (inherited) that
mainly affects the bone marrow. It results in decreased production of all
types of blood cells.

This is the most common inherited form of aplastic anemia.

Fanconi anemia is different from Fanconi syndrome, a rare kidney disorder.

## Causes

Fanconi anemia is due to an abnormal gene that damages cells, which keeps them
from repairing damaged DNA.

To inherit Fanconi anemia, a person must get one copy of the abnormal gene
from each parent.

The condition is most often diagnosed in children between 3 and 14 years old.

## Symptoms

People with Fanconi anemia have lower-than-normal numbers of white blood
cells, red blood cells, and platelets (cells that help the blood clot).

Not enough white blood cells can lead to infections. A lack of red blood cells
may result in fatigue (anemia).

A lower-than-normal amount of platelets may lead to excess bleeding.

Most people with Fanconi anemia have some of these symptoms:

    * Abnormal heart, lungs, and digestive tract
    * Bone problems (especially the hips, spine or ribs) can cause a curved spine (scoliosis)
    * Changes in the color of the skin, such as darkened areas of the skin, called cafÃ© au lait spots, and vitiligo
    * Deafness due to abnormal ears
    * Eye or eyelid problems
    * Kidneys that did not form correctly
    * Problems with the arms and hands, such as missing, extra or misshapen thumbs, problems of the hands and the bone in the lower arm, and small or missing bone in the forearm
    * Short height
    * Small head
    * Small testicles and genital changes 

Other possible symptoms:

    * Failure to thrive
    * Learning disability
    * Low birth weight
    * Intellectual disability 

## Exams and Tests

Common tests for Fanconi anemia include:

    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Developmental tests
    * Medicines added to a blood sample to check for damage to chromosomes
    * Hand x-ray and other imaging studies (CT scan, MRI)
    * Hearing test
    * HLA tissue typing (to find matching bone-marrow donors)
    * Ultrasound of the kidneys 

Pregnant women may have amniocentesis or chorionic villous sampling to
diagnose the condition in their unborn child.

## Treatment

People with mild to moderate blood cell changes who do not need a transfusion
may only need regular check-ups and blood count checks. The health care
provider will closely monitor the person for other cancers. These may include
leukemia or cancers of the head, neck, or urinary system.

Medicines called growth factors (such as erythropoietin, G-CSF, and GM-CSF)
can improve blood counts for a short while.

A bone marrow transplant can cure the blood count problems of Fanconi anemia.
(The best bone marrow donor is a brother or sister whose tissue type matches
the person affected by Fanconi anemia.)

People who have had a successful bone marrow transplant still need regular
check-ups because of the risk for additional cancers.

Hormone therapy combined with low doses of steroids (such as hydrocortisone or
prednisone) is prescribed to those who do not have a bone marrow donor. Most
people respond to hormone therapy. But everyone with the disorder will quickly
get worse when the medicines are stopped. In most cases, these medicines
eventually stop working.

Additional treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics (possibly given through a vein) to treat infections
    * Blood transfusions to treat symptoms due to low blood counts 
    * Human papilloma virus vaccine

Most people with this condition visit a a doctor on regular basis,
specializing in treating:

    * Blood disorders (hematologist)
    * Diseases related to glands (endocrinologist)
    * Eye diseases (ophthalmologist)
    * Bone diseases (orthopedist)
    * Kidney disease (nephrologist)
    * Diseases related to female reproductive organs and breasts (gynecologist)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The survival rates vary from person to person. The outlook is poor in those
with low blood counts. New and improved treatments, such as bone marrow
transplants, have likely improved survival.

People with Fanconi anemia are more likely to develop several types of blood
disorders and cancers. These may include leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome,
and cancer of the head, neck, or urinary system.

Women with Fanconi anemia who become pregnant should be watched carefully by a
specialist. Such women often need transfusions throughout pregnancy.

Men with Fanconi anemia have decreased fertility.

## Possible Complications

Complications of Fanconi anemia may include:

    * Bone marrow failure
    * Blood cancer
    * Liver cancers (both benign and malignant)

## Prevention

Families with a history of this condition can have genetic counseling to
better understand their risk.

Vaccination can reduce certain complications, including pneumococcal
pneumonia, hepatitis, and varicella infections.

People with Fanconi anemia should avoid cancer-causing substances
(carcinogens) and have regular check-ups to screen for cancer.

## Alternative Names

Fanconi's anemia; Anemia - Fanconi's

## Images

    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood

## References

Dror Y. Inherited bone marrow failure syndromes. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

Lissauer T, Carroll W. Haematological disorders. In: Lissauer T, Carroll W,
eds. _Illustrated Textbook of Paediatrics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 23.

Vlachos A, Lipton JM. Bone marrow failure. In: Lanzkowsky P, Lipton JM, Fish
JD, eds. _Lanzkowsky's Manual of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Aplastic
Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AplasticAnemia_thumb.jpg)Aplastic
Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

