Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000554.htm    
                                Description: Aplastic anemia is a condition in which the bone marrow does not make enough blood cells. Bone marrow is the soft, tissue in the center of bones that is responsible for producing blood cells and platelets.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aplastic anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000554.htm

# Aplastic anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aplastic anemia is a condition in which the bone marrow does not make enough
blood cells. Bone marrow is the soft, tissue in the center of bones that is
responsible for producing blood cells and platelets.

## Causes

Aplastic anemia results from damage to the blood stem cells. Stem cells are
immature cells in the bone marrow that give rise to all blood cell types (red
blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets). Injury to the stem cells leads
to a decrease in the number of these blood cell types.

Aplastic anemia can be caused by:

    * Use of certain drugs or exposure to toxic chemicals (such as chloramphenicol, benzene)
    * Exposure to radiation or chemotherapy
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Pregnancy
    * Viruses

Sometimes, the cause is unknown. In this case, the disorder is called
idiopathic aplastic anemia.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are due to the underproduction of red cells, white cells, and
platelets. Symptoms may be severe from the start or gradually worsen over time
as the disease progresses.

Low red cell count (anemia) can cause:

    * Fatigue
    * Pallor (paleness)
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Shortness of breath with exercise
    * Weakness
    * Lightheadedness upon standing 

Low white cell count (leukopenia) causes an increased risk for infection.

Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) can result in bleeding. Symptoms
include:

    * Bleeding gums
    * Easy bruising
    * Nose bleeds
    * Rash, small pinpoint red marks on the skin (petechiae) 
    * Frequent or severe infections (less common)

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests will show:

    * Low red blood cell count (anemia)
    * Low white blood cell count (leukopenia)
    * Low reticulocyte count (reticulocytes are the youngest red blood cells)
    * Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) 

A bone marrow biopsy shows fewer-than-normal blood cells and an increased
amount of fat.

## Treatment

Mild cases of aplastic anemia that do not have symptoms may not require
treatment.

As blood cell counts become lower and symptoms develop, blood and platelets
are given through transfusions. Over time, transfusions may stop working,
resulting in very low blood cell counts. This is a life-threatening condition.

Bone marrow, or stem cell transplant may be recommended for people under age
40. This treatment works best when the donor is a fully-matched brother or
sister. This is called a matched sibling donor.

Older people and those who do not have a matched sibling donor are given
medicine to suppress the immune system. These medicines may allow the bone
marrow to once again make healthy blood cells. But the disease may return
(relapse). A bone marrow transplant with an unrelated donor may be tried if
these medicines do not help or if the disease comes back after getting better.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Untreated, severe aplastic anemia leads to rapid death. Bone marrow transplant
can be very successful in young people. Transplant is also used in older
people or when the disease comes back after medicines have stopped working.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Severe infections or bleeding
    * Complications of bone marrow transplant
    * Reactions to medicines
    * Hemochromatosis (buildup of too much iron in the body tissues from many red cell transfusions) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or go to the emergency room if bleeding occurs
for no reason, or if bleeding is hard to stop. Call if you notice frequent
infections or unusual fatigue.

## Alternative Names

Hypoplastic anemia; Bone marrow failure - aplastic anemia

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration

## References

Bagby GC. Aplastic anemia and related bone marrow failure states. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 165.

Young NS, Maciejewski JP. Aplastic anemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein
LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 30.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Aplastic
Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AplasticAnemia_thumb.jpg)Aplastic
Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

