Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007716.htm    
                                Description: Myelodysplastic syndrome is a group of disorders when the blood cells produced in the bone marrow do not mature into healthy cells. This leaves you with fewer healthy blood cells in your body. The blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myelodysplastic syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007716.htm

# Myelodysplastic syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myelodysplastic syndrome is a group of disorders when the blood cells produced
in the bone marrow do not mature into healthy cells. This leaves you with
fewer healthy blood cells in your body. The blood cells that have matured may
not function properly.

Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a form of cancer. In about a third of
people, MDS may develop into acute myeloid leukemia.

## Causes

Stem cells in bone marrow form different types of blood cells. With MDS, the
DNA in stem cells becomes damaged. Because the DNA is damaged, the stem cells
canât produce healthy blood cells.

The exact cause of MDS is not known. For most cases, there is no known cause.

Risk factors for MDS include:

    * Certain genetic disorders
    * Exposure to environmental or industrial chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, solvents, or heavy metals
    * Smoking 

Prior cancer treatment increases the risk for MDS. This is called secondary or
treatment-related MDS.

    * Certain chemotherapy drugs increase the chance of developing MDS. This is a major risk factor.
    * Radiation therapy, when used with chemotherapy, increases the risk for MDS even more.
    * People who have stem cell transplants may develop MDS because they also receive high doses of chemotherapy. 

MDS usually occurs in adults age of 60 years and older. It is more common in
men.

![Red blood cell
production](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200028t.gif)Watch this
video about:Red blood cell production

## Symptoms

Early stage MDS often has no symptoms.Â MDS is often discovered during other
blood tests.

People with very low blood counts often experience symptoms. Symptoms depend
on the type of blood cell affected, and they include:

    * Weakness or tiredness due to anemia
    * Shortness of breath
    * Easy bruising and bleeding
    * Small red or purple pinpoint dots under the skin caused by bleeding
    * Frequent infections and fever

## Exams and Tests

People with MDS have a shortage of blood cells. MDS may reduce the number of
one or more of these:

    * Red blood cells
    * White blood cells
    * Platelets 

The shapes of these cells may also get changed. Your health care provider will
perform a complete blood count and blood smear to find which kind of blood
cells have been affected.

Other tests that may be performed are:

    * Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy. 
    * Cytochemistry, flow cytometry, immunocytochemistry, and immunophenotyping tests are used to identify and classify specific types of MDS.
    * Cytogenetics and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) are used for genetic analysis. Cytogenetic testing can detect translocations and other genetic abnormalities. FISH is used to identify specific changes within chromosomes. Genetic variations may help determine response to treatment.

Some of these tests will help your provider determine what type of MDS you
have. This will help your provider plan your treatment.

Your provider may define your MDS as high-risk, intermediate-risk, or low-risk
on the basis of:

    * The severity of shortage of blood cells in your body
    * The kinds of changes in your DNA
    * The number of immature white blood cells in your bone marrow

Since there is a risk of MDS developing into AML, regular follow-up with your
provider may be required.

## Treatment

Your treatment will depend on several factors:

    * Whether you are low-risk or high-risk
    * The type of MDS you have
    * Your age, health, and other conditions you may have, such as diabetes or heart disease

The goal of MDS treatment is to prevent problems due to a shortage of blood
cells, infections and bleeding. It may consist of:

    * Blood transfusion
    * Drugs that promote the production of blood cells
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system
    * Low-dose chemotherapy to improve blood cell counts
    * Stem cell transplantation

Your provider may try one or more treatments to see what your MDS responds to.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook will depend on your type of MDS and severity of symptoms. Your
overall health also may affect your chances of recovery. Many people have
stable MDS that does not progress into cancer for years, if ever.

About 25% to 30% of people with MDS develop AML.

## Possible Complications

MDS complications include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infections such as pneumonia, gastrointestinal infections, urinary infections
    * Acute myeloid leukemia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you:

    * Feel weak and tired most of the time
    * Bruise or bleed easily, have bleeding of the gums or frequent nosebleeds
    * You notice red or purple spots of bleeding under the skin

## Alternative Names

Myeloid malignancy; Myelodysplastic syndrome; MDS; Preleukemia; Smoldering
leukemia; Refractory anemia; Refractory cytopenia

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration

## References

Hasserjian RP, Head DR. Myelodysplastic syndromes. In: Jaffe ES, Arber DA,
Campo E, Harris NL, Quintanilla-Martinez L, eds. _Hematopathology._ 2nd ed.
Philadelphia PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

National Cancer Institute website. Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative
neoplasms treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/myeloproliferative/hp/myelodysplastic-treatment-pdq.
Updated April 2, 2015. Accessed September 30, 2017.

Steensma DP, Stone RM. Myelodysplastic syndromes. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 182.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Myelodysplastic
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MyelodysplasticSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Myelodysplastic
Syndromes _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

