Link: https://medlineplus.gov/varicoseveins.html    
                                Description: Varicose veins (or spider veins) are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the skin. Learn about how to keep them from getting worse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Varicose Veins

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/varicoseveins.html

#  Varicose Veins

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Men
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Varicose veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the
skin. They usually occur in the legs, but also can form in other parts of the
body. Hemorrhoids are a type of varicose vein.

Your veins have one-way valves that help keep blood flowing toward your heart.
If the valves are weak or damaged, blood can back up and pool in your veins.
This causes the veins to swell, which can lead to varicose veins.

Varicose veins are very common. You are more at risk if you are older, are
female, have obesity, don't exercise, or have a family history of varicose
veins. They can also be more common in pregnancy.

Doctors often diagnose varicose veins from a physical exam. Sometimes you may
need additional tests.

Exercising, losing weight, elevating your legs when resting, and not crossing
them when sitting can help keep varicose veins from getting worse. Wearing
loose clothing and avoiding long periods of standing can also help. If
varicose veins are painful or you don't like the way they look, your doctor
may recommend procedures to remove them.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Bulging Veins: What to Do About Varicose Veins ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Focus on Varicose Veins (Vascular Disease Foundation) \- PDF
    * Varicose Veins (American Heart Association)
    * Varicose Veins and Spider Veins (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Varicose Veins? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Venography (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Venous Ultrasound (Extremities) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Ambulatory Phlebectomy (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * Horse Chestnut ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Sclerotherapy of Varicose Veins and Spider Veins (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Spider Vein Removal (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Varicose Vein Treatment (Endovenous Ablation of Varicose Veins) (Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * What is Chronic Venous Insufficiency (CVI)? (Vascular Disease Foundation) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Spider Veins (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)

## Images

    * Telangiectasias (Logical Images)
    * Varicosities (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Telangiectasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Varicose Veins ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effectiveness of tumescent solution combined with negative pressure wound therapy in...
    * Article: A retrospective cohort study comparing two treatments for active venous leg...
    * Article: Regression of a symptomatic varix after transarterial embolization of a brain...
    * Varicose Veins -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Glossary (Vascular Cures)

## Find an Expert

    * American Society for Dermatologic Surgery
    * Find a Dermatologic Surgeon (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * What Are Varicose Veins? (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Varicocele (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)

## Men

    * Varicocele (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Varicocele Embolization (American College of Radiology) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Why Do Some Pregnant Women Get Varicose Veins? (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Telangiectasia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Varicocele (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Varicose and other vein problems - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Varicose vein - noninvasive treatment (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Varicose vein stripping (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Varicose veins and venous insufficiency (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Varicose Veins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaricoseVeins.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Telangiectasia
    * Varicocele
    * Varicose and other vein problems - self-care
    * Varicose vein - noninvasive treatment
    * Varicose vein stripping
    * Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor
    * Varicose veins and venous insufficiency
    * Venous insufficiency

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Varicose Veins is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Varicose Veins_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 9 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

