Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000500.htm    
                                Description: If you have a latex allergy, your skin or mucous membranes (eyes, mouth, nose, or other moist areas) react when latex touches them. A severe latex allergy can affect breathing and cause other serious problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing latex allergies at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000500.htm

# Managing latex allergies at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have a latex allergy, your skin or mucous membranes (eyes, mouth, nose,
or other moist areas) react when latex touches them. A severe latex allergy
can affect breathing and cause other serious problems.

Latex is made from the sap of rubber trees. It is very strong and stretchy. So
it is used in a lot of common household items and toys.

## Home Items That Might Contain Latex

Items that may contain latex include:

    * Balloons
    * Condoms and diaphragms
    * Rubber bands
    * Shoe soles
    * Bandages
    * Latex gloves
    * Toys
    * Paint
    * Carpet backing
    * Baby-bottle nipples and pacifiers
    * Clothing, including rain coats and elastic on underwear
    * Food that was prepared by someone who was wearing latex gloves
    * Handles on sports rackets and tools
    * Diapers, sanitary napkins, and other pads, such as Depend
    * Buttons and switches on computers and other electronic devices

Other items that are not on this list could also contain latex.

You may even develop a latex allergy if you are allergic to foods that contain
the same proteins that are in latex. These foods include:

    * Bananas
    * Avocado
    * Chestnuts

Other foods that are less strongly linked with latex allergy include:

    * Kiwi
    * Peaches
    * Nectarines
    * Celery
    * Melons
    * Tomatoes
    * Papayas
    * Figs
    * Potatoes
    * Apples
    * Carrots

## Diagnosis

Latex allergy is diagnosed by how you have reacted to latex in the past. If
you developed a rash or other symptoms after contact with latex, you may be
allergic to latex. Your health care provider can use allergy skin testing to
see if you have a latex allergy.

A blood test can also be done to help your provider tell whether you are
allergic to latex.

## How to Avoid Latex

Always tell any provider, dentist, or person who draws blood from you that you
have a latex allergy. More and more, people wear gloves in the workplace and
elsewhere to protect their hands and avoid germs. These tips can help you
avoid latex:

    * If people use latex products in your workplace, tell your employer you are allergic to it. Stay away from areas at work where latex is used.
    * Wear a medical alert bracelet so that others know you are allergic to latex, in case you have a medical emergency.
    * Before eating at a restaurant, ask if food handlers wear latex gloves when handling or preparing food. While rare, some very sensitive people have gotten sick from food prepared by handlers wearing latex gloves. Proteins from the latex gloves can transfer to food and kitchen surfaces. 

Carry a pair of vinyl or other non-latex gloves with you and have more at
home. Wear them when you handle items that:

    * Someone who wore latex gloves touched
    * May have latex in them but you are not sure 

For children who are allergic to latex:

    * Make sure daycare providers, babysitters, teachers, and your children's friends and their families know that your children have latex allergies.
    * Tell your children's dentists and other providers such as doctors and nurses.
    * Teach your child not to touch toys and other products that contain latex.
    * Choose toys that are made of wood, metal, or cloth that does not contain elastic. If you are not sure if a toy has latex, check the packaging or call the toy maker. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Your provider may prescribe epinephrine if you are at risk of a severe
allergic reaction to latex. Know how to use this medicine if you have an
allergic reaction.

    * Epinephrine is injected and slows down or stops allergic reactions.
    * Epinephrine comes as a kit.
    * Carry this medicine with you if you have had a severe reaction to latex in the past.

Call your provider if you think you may be allergic to latex. It is easier to
diagnose a latex allergy when you are having a reaction. Symptoms of latex
allergy include:

    * Dry, itchy skin
    * Hives
    * Skin redness and swelling
    * Watery, itchy eyes
    * Runny nose
    * Scratchy throat
    * Wheezing or coughing

If a severe allergic reaction occurs, call 911 or your local emergency number
right away. These symptoms include:

    * Difficulty breathing or swallowing
    * Dizziness or fainting
    * Confusion
    * Vomiting, diarrhea, or stomach cramps
    * Symptoms of shock, such as shallow breathing, cold and clammy skin, or weakness

## Alternative Names

Latex products; Latex allergy; Latex sensitivity; Contact dermatitis - latex
allergy

## References

Habif TP. Contact dermatitis and patch testing. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy._ 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Lumiere C, Vandenplas O. Occupational allergy and asthma. In: Adkinson NF,
Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 59.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Latex Allergy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

