Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000499.htm    
                                Description: If you have a latex allergy, your skin or mucous membranes (eyes, mouth, nose, or other moist areas) react when latex touches them. A severe latex allergy can affect breathing and cause other serious problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Latex allergies - for hospital patients

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000499.htm

# Latex allergies - for hospital patients

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have a latex allergy, your skin or mucous membranes (eyes, mouth, nose,
or other moist areas) react when latex touches them. A severe latex allergy
can affect breathing and cause other serious problems.

Latex is made from the sap of rubber trees. It is very strong and stretchy.
For this reason, it is used in a lot of medical equipment.

## Hospital Items That Contain Latex

Common hospital items that may contain latex include:

    * Surgical and exam gloves
    * Catheters and other tubing
    * Sticky tape or electrode pads that can be attached to your skin during an EKG
    * Blood pressure cuffs
    * Tourniquets (bands used to stop or slow blood flow)
    * Stethoscopes (used to listen to your heart beat and breathing)
    * Grips on crutches and crutch tips
    * Bed sheet protectors
    * Elastic bandages and wraps
    * Wheelchair tires and cushions
    * Medicine vials 

Other hospital items may also contain latex.

## Are you at Risk for a Latex Allergy?

Over time, frequent contact with latex increases the risk of a latex allergy.
People in this group include:

    * Hospital workers
    * People who have had many surgeries
    * People with conditions like spina bifida and urinary tract defects (tubing is often used to treat them) 

Others who may become allergic to latex are people who are allergic to foods
that have the same proteins that are in latex. These foods include bananas,
avocado, and chestnuts.

Foods that are less strongly linked with latex allergy include:

    * Kiwi
    * Peaches
    * Nectarines
    * Celery
    * Melons
    * Tomatoes
    * Papayas
    * Figs
    * Potatoes
    * Apples
    * Carrots 

## Diagnosis

Latex allergy is diagnosed by how you have reacted to latex in the past. If
you developed a rash or other symptoms after contact with latex, you are
allergic to latex. Allergy skin testing can help diagnose a latex allergy.

A blood test can also be done. If you have latex antibodies in your blood, you
are allergic to latex. Antibodies are substances your body makes in response
to latex allergens.

## Signs and Symptoms of Latex Allergies

You can have a reaction to latex if your skin, mucous membranes (eyes, mouth,
or other moist areas), or bloodstream (during surgery) come into contact with
latex. Breathing in the powder on latex gloves can also cause reactions.

Symptoms of latex allergy include:

    * Dry, itchy skin
    * Hives
    * Skin redness and swelling
    * Watery, itchy eyes
    * Runny nose
    * Scratchy throat
    * Wheezing or coughing 

Signs of a severe allergic reaction often involve more than one body part.
Some of the symptoms are:

    * Having a hard time breathing or swallowing
    * Dizziness or fainting
    * Confusion
    * Vomiting, diarrhea, or stomach cramps
    * Pale or red skin
    * Symptoms of shock, such as shallow breathing, cold and clammy skin, or weakness 

A severe allergic reaction is an emergency. You must be treated right away.

## How to Avoid Exposure to Latex in the Hospital

If you have a latex allergy, avoid items that contain latex. Ask for equipment
that is made with vinyl or silicone instead of latex. Other ways to avoid
latex while you are in the hospital include asking for:

    * Equipment, such as stethoscopes and blood pressure cuffs, to be covered, so that they do not touch your skin
    * A sign to be posted on your door and notes in your medical chart about your allergy to latex
    * Any latex gloves or other items that contain latex to be removed from your room
    * The pharmacy and dietary staff to be told about your latex allergy so they do not use latex when they prepare your medicines and food 

## Alternative Names

Latex products - hospital; Latex allergy - hospital; Latex sensitivity -
hospital; Contact dermatitis - latex allergy; Allergy - latex; Allergic
reaction - latex

## References

Habif TP. Contact dermatitis and patch testing. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy._ 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Lumiere C, Vandenplas O. Occupational allergy and asthma. In: Adkinson NF,
Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 59.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Latex Allergy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

