Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003625.htm    
                                Description: A CSF cell count is a test to measure the number of red and white blood cells that are in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is a clear fluid that is in the space around the spinal cord and brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF cell count

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003625.htm

# CSF cell count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A CSF cell count is a test to measure the number of red and white blood cells
that are in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is a clear fluid that is in the
space around the spinal cord and brain.

## How the Test is Performed

A lumbar puncture (spinal tap) is the most common way to collect this sample.
Rarely, other methods are used for collecting CSF such as:

    * Cisternal puncture
    * Ventricular puncture
    * Removal of CSF from a tube that is already in the CSF, such as a shunt or ventricular drain.

After the sample is taken, it is sent to a lab for evaluation.

## Why the Test is Performed

The CSF cell count may help detect:

    * Meningitis and infection of the brain or spinal cord
    * Tumor, abscess, or area of tissue death (infarct)
    * Inflammation
    * Bleeding into the spinal fluid (secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage)

## Normal Results

The normal white blood cell count is between 0 and 5. The normal red blood
cell count is 0.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increase of white blood cells indicates infection, inflammation, or
bleeding into the cerebrospinal fluid. Some causes include:

    * Abscess
    * Encephalitis
    * Hemorrhage
    * Meningitis
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Other infections
    * Tumor 

Finding red blood cells in the CSF may be a sign of bleeding. However, red
blood cells in the CSF may also be due to the spinal tap needle hitting a
blood vessel.

Additional conditions which this test may help diagnose include:

    * Arteriovenous malformation (cerebral)
    * Cerebral aneurysm
    * Delirium
    * Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome
    * Stroke
    * Neurosyphilis
    * Primary lymphoma of the brain
    * Seizure disorders, including epilepsy
    * Spinal tumor

## Images

    * ![CSF cell count](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9238t.jpg)CSF cell count

## References

Bergsneider M. Shunting. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological
Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

Griggs RC, Jozefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

Karcher DS, McPherson RA. Cerebrospinal, synovial, serous body fluids, and
alternative specimens. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![Encephalitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Encephalitis_thumb.jpg)Encephalitis
_Read more_

![Infectious
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousDiseases_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

