Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000448.htm    
                                Description: Giant cell arteritis is inflammation and damage to the blood vessels that supply blood to the head, neck, upper body and arms. It is also called temporal arteritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Giant cell arteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000448.htm

# Giant cell arteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Giant cell arteritis is inflammation and damage to the blood vessels that
supply blood to the head, neck, upper body and arms. It is also called
temporal arteritis.

## Causes

Giant cell arteritis affects medium-to-large arteries. It causes inflammation,
swelling, tenderness, and damage to the blood vessels that supply blood to the
head, neck, upper body, and arms. It most commonly occurs in the arteries
around the temples (temporal arteries). These arteries branch off from the
carotid artery in the neck. In some cases, the condition can occur in medium-
to-large arteries in other places in the body as well.

The cause of the condition is unknown. It is believed to be due in part to a
faulty immune response. The disorder has been linked to some infections and to
certain genes.

Giant cell arteritis is more common in people with another inflammatory
disorder known as polymyalgia rheumatica. Giant cell arteritis almost always
occurs in people over age 50. It is most common in people of northern European
descent. The condition may run in families.

## Symptoms

Some common symptoms of this problem are:

    * New throbbing headache on one side of the head or the back of the head
    * Tenderness when touching the scalp 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Jaw pain that occurs when chewing
    * Pain in the arm after using it
    * Muscle aches
    * Pain and stiffness in the neck, upper arms, shoulder, and hipsÂ (polymyalgia rheumatica)
    * Weakness, excessive tiredness 
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling

Problems with eyesight may occur, and at times may begin suddenly. These
problems include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Double vision
    * Sudden reduced vision (blindness in one or both eyes) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your head.

    * The scalp is often sensitive to touch.
    * There may be a tender, thick artery on one side of the head, most often over one or both temples. 

Blood tests may include:

    * Hemoglobin or hematocrit
    * Liver function tests
    * Sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein

Blood tests alone cannot provide a diagnosis. You will need to have a biopsy
of the temporal artery. This is a surgical procedure that can be done as an
outpatient.

You may also have other tests, including:

    * Color Doppler ultrasound of the temporal arteries. This may take the place of a temporal artery biopsy if done by someone experienced with the procedure.
    * MRI.
    * PET scan.

## Treatment

Getting prompt treatment can help prevent severe problems such as blindness.

When giant cell arteritis is suspected, you will receive corticosteroids, such
as prednisone, by mouth. These medicines are often started even before a
biopsy is done. You may also be told to take aspirin.

Most people begin to feel better within a few days after starting treatment.
The dose of corticosteroids will be cut back very slowly. However, you will
need to take medicine for 1 to 2 years.

If the diagnosis of giant cell arteritis is made, in most people a biologic
medicine called tocilizumab will be added. This medicine reduces the amount of
corticosteroids needed to control the disease.

Long-term treatment with corticosteroids can make bones thinner and increase
your chance of a fracture. You will need to take the following steps to
protect your bone strength.

    * Avoid smoking and excess alcohol intake.
    * Take extra calcium and vitamin D (based on your provider's advice).
    * Start walking or other forms of weight-bearing exercises.
    * Have your bones checked with a bone mineral density (BMD) test or DEXA scan.
    * Take a bisphosphonate medicine, such as alendronate (Fosamax), as prescribed by your provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people make a full recovery, but treatment may be needed for 1 to 2 years
or longer. The condition may return at a later date.

Damage to other blood vessels in the body, such as aneurysms (ballooning of
the blood vessels), may occur. This damage can lead to a stroke in the future.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Throbbing headache that does not go away
    * Loss of vision
    * Other symptoms of temporal arteritis 

You may be referred to a specialist who treats temporal arteritis.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Arteritis - temporal; Cranial arteritis; Giant cell arteritis

## Images

    * ![Carotid artery anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9552t.jpg)Carotid artery anatomy

## References

Dejaco C, Ramiro S, Duftner C, et al. EULAR recommendations for the use of
imaging in large vessel vasculitis in clinical practice. _Ann Rheum Dis_.
2018;77(5):636-643. PMID: 29358285 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29358285.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Cutaneous vascular
diseases. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 35.

Koster MJ, Matteson EL, Warrington KJ. Large-vessel giant cell arteritis:
diagnosis, monitoring and management. _Rheumatology (Oxford)_.
2018;57(suppl_2):ii32-ii42. PMID: 29982778
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29982778.

Stone JH, Tuckwell K, Dimonaco S, et al. Trial of tocilizumab in giant-cell
arteritis. _N Engl J Med_. 2017;377(4):317-328. PMID: 28745999
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28745999.

Tamaki H, Hajj-Ali RA. Tocilizumab for giant cell arteritis-a new giant step
in an old disease. _JAMA Neurol_. 2018;75(2):145-146. PMID: 29255889
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29255889.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Giant Cell
Arteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GiantCellArteritis_thumb.jpg)Giant
Cell Arteritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

