Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000447.htm    
                                Description: Eosinophilic fasciitis (EF) is a syndrome in which tissue under the skin and over the muscle, called fascia, becomes swollen, inflamed and thick. The skin on the arms, legs, neck, abdomen or feet can swell    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eosinophilic fasciitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000447.htm

# Eosinophilic fasciitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eosinophilic fasciitis (EF) is a syndrome in which tissue under the skin and
over the muscle, called fascia, becomes swollen, inflamed and thick. The skin
on the arms, legs, neck, abdomen or feet can swell quickly. The condition is
very rare.

EF may look similar to scleroderma, but is not related. Unlike scleroderma, in
EF, the fingers are not involved.

## Causes

The cause of EF is unknown. Rare cases have occurred after taking L-tryptophan
supplements. In people with this condition, white blood cells, called
eosinophils, build up in the muscles and tissues. Eosinophils are linked to
allergic reactions. The syndrome is more common in people ages 30 to 60.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Tenderness and swelling of the skin on the arms, legs, or sometimes the joints (most often on both sides of the body)
    * Arthritis
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Muscle pain
    * Thickened skin that looks puckered 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * CBC with differential
    * Gamma globulins (a type of immune system protein)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * MRI
    * Muscle biopsy
    * Skin biopsy (the biopsy needs to include the deep tissue of the fascia)

## Treatment

Corticosteroids and other immune-suppressing medicines are used to relieve
symptoms. These medicines are more effective when started early in the
disease. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also help reduce
symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the condition goes away within 1 to 3 years. However, symptoms
may last longer or come back.

## Possible Complications

Arthritis is a rare complication of EF. Some people may develop very serious
blood disorders or blood-related cancers, such as aplastic anemia or leukemia.
The outlook is much worse if blood diseases occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Shulman syndrome

## Images

    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles

## References

Aronson JK. Tryptophan. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:220-221.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Connective tissue
diseases. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 8.

Lee LA, Werth VP. Skin and rheumatic diseases. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

Pinal-Fernandez I, Selva-O' Callaghan A, Grau JM. Diagnosis and classification
of eosinophilic fasciitis. _Autoimmun Rev_. 2014;13(4-5):379-382. PMID:
24424187 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24424187.

National Organization for Rare Disorders. Eosinophilic fasciitis.
rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/eosinophilic-fasciitis/. Updated 2016. Accessed
March 6, 2017.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eosinophilic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EosinophilicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eosinophilic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

