Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000105.htm    
                                Description: Simple pulmonary eosinophilia is inflammation of the lungs from an increase in eosinophils, a type of white blood cell. Pulmonary means related to the lungs.Â     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Simple pulmonary eosinophilia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000105.htm

# Simple pulmonary eosinophilia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Simple pulmonary eosinophilia is inflammation of the lungs from an increase in
eosinophils, a type of white blood cell. Pulmonary means related to the
lungs.Â

## Causes

Most cases of this condition are due to an allergic reaction from:

    * A medicine, such as a sulfonamide antibiotic or a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as ibuprofen or naproxen
    * Infection with a fungus such as _Aspergillus fumigatus_ or _Pneumocystis jirovecii_
    * A parasite, including the roundworms _Ascariasis lumbricoides_ _,_ or _Necator americanus_ , or the hookwormÂ _Ancylostoma duodenale_

In some cases, no cause is found.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest pain
    * Dry cough 
    * Fever 
    * General ill feeling
    * Rapid breathing
    * Rash
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing

Symptoms can range from none at all to severe. They may go away without
treatment.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to your chest with a stethoscope.
Crackle-like sounds, called rales, may be heard. Rales suggest inflammation of
the lung tissue.

A complete blood count (CBC) test may show increased white blood cells,
particularly eosinophils.

Chest x-ray usually shows abnormal shadows called infiltrates. They may
disappear with time or reappear in different areas of the lung.

A bronchoscopy with washing usually shows a large number of eosinophils.

A procedure that removes the stomach contents (gastric lavage) may show signs
of the ascaris worm or another parasite.

## Treatment

If you are allergic to a medicine, your provider may tell you to stop taking
it. Never stop taking a medicine without first talking with your provider.

If the condition is due to an infection, you may be treated with an antibiotic
or antiparasitic medicine.

Sometimes, anti-inflammatory medicines called corticosteroids are given,
especially if you have aspergillosis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease often goes away without treatment. If treatment is needed, the
response is usually good. But, the disease can come back, especially if the
condition does not have a specific cause and needs to be treated with
corticosteroids.

## Possible Complications

A rare complication of simple pulmonary eosinophilia is a severe type of
pneumonia called acute idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonia.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you have symptoms that may be linked with this disorder.

## Prevention

This is a rare disorder. Many times, the cause cannot be found. Minimizing
exposure to possible risk factors, such as certain medicines or parasites, may
reduce the chance of developing this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia; Loffler syndrome;Â Eosinophilic
pneumonia; Pneumonia - eosinophilic

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Cottin V, Cordier J-F. Eosinophilic lung diseases. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 68.  

Kim K, Weiss LM, Tanowitz HB. Parasitic infections. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 39.

Klion AD, Weller PF. Eosinophilia and eosinophil-related disorders. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 75.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eosinophilic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EosinophilicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eosinophilic
Disorders _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

