Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003649.htm    
                                Description: An absolute eosinophil count is a blood test that measures the number of one type of white blood cells called eosinophils. Eosinophils become active when you have certain allergic diseases, infections,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eosinophil count - absolute

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003649.htm

# Eosinophil count - absolute

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An absolute eosinophil count is a blood test that measures the number of one
type of white blood cells called eosinophils. Eosinophils become active when
you have certain allergic diseases, infections, and other medical conditions.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein on the inside of the elbow or the
back of the hand. The site is cleaned with an antiseptic. The health care
provider wraps an elastic band around your upper arm to make the vein swell
with blood.

Next, the provider gently inserts a needle into the vein. The blood collects
into an airtight tube attached to the needle. The elastic band is removed from
your arm. The needle is then removed and the site is covered to stop bleeding.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
prick the skin. The blood collects in a small glass tube, or onto a slide or
test strip. A bandage is put on the spot to stop bleeding.

In the lab, the blood is placed on a microscope slide. A stain is added to the
sample. This causes eosinophils to show up as orange-red granules. The
technician then counts how many eosinophils are present per 100 cells. The
percentage of eosinophils is multiplied by the white blood cell count to give
the absolute eosinophil count.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, adults do not need to take special steps before this test.
Tell your provider the medicines you are taking, including the ones without a
prescription. Some drugs may change the test results.

Medicines that may cause you to have an increase in eosinophils include:

    * Amphetamines (appetite suppressants)
    * Certain laxatives containing psyllium
    * Certain antibiotics
    * Interferon
    * Tranquilizers

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

You will have this test to see if you have abnormal results from a blood
differential test. This test may also be done if the provider thinks you may
have a specific disease.

This test may help diagnose:

    * Acute hypereosinophilic syndrome (a rare, but sometimes fatal leukemia-like condition)
    * An allergic reaction (can also reveal how severe the reaction is)
    * Early stages of Addison disease
    * Infection by a parasite 

## Normal Results

Normal eosinophil count is less than 500 cells per microliter (cells/mcL).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurements for results of these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high number of eosinophils (eosinophilia) are often linked to a variety of
disorders. A high eosinophil count may be due to:

    * Adrenal gland deficiency
    * Allergic disease, including hay fever
    * Asthma
    * Autoimmune diseases
    * Eczema
    * Fungal infections
    * Hypereosinophilic syndrome
    * Leukemia and other blood disorders
    * Lymphoma
    * Parasite infection, such as worms

A lower-than-normal eosinophil count may be due to:

    * Alcohol intoxication
    * Overproduction of certain steroids in the body (such as cortisol)

## Risks

Risks from having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

The eosinophil count is used to help confirm a diagnosis. The test cannot tell
if the higher number of cells is caused by allergy or parasite infection.

## Alternative Names

Eosinophils; Absolute eosinophil count

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Klion AD, Weller PF. Eosinophilia and eosinophil-related disorders. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 75.

Roberts DJ. Hematologic aspects of parasitic diseases. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 158.

Rothenberg ME. Eosinophilic syndromes. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 170.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eosinophilic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EosinophilicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eosinophilic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

