Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000597.htm    
                                Description: You wear compression stockings to improve blood flow in your legs. Compression stockings gently squeeze your legs to move blood up your legs. This helps prevent leg swelling and, to a lesser extent, blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Compression stockings

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000597.htm

# Compression stockings

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You wear compression stockings to improve blood flow in your legs. Compression
stockings gently squeeze your legs to move blood up your legs. This helps
prevent leg swelling and, to a lesser extent, blood clots.

If you have varicose veins, spider veins, or have just had surgery, your
health care provider may prescribe compression stockings.

Wearing stockings helps with:

    * Aching and heavy feeling in legs
    * Swelling in legs
    * Preventing blood clots, primarily after surgery or injury when you are less active 

## Types of Compression Stockings

Talk to your provider about what kind of compression stockings are right for
you. There are many different compression stockings. They come in different:

    * Pressures, from light pressure to strong pressure
    * Lengths, from knee-high to the top of the thigh
    * Colors

## Buying Compression Stockings

Call your health insurance or prescription plan:

    * Find out if they pay for compression stockings.
    * Ask if your durable medical equipment benefit pays for compression stockings.
    * Get a prescription from your doctor.
    * Find a medical equipment store where they can measure your legs so you get a good fit. 

## Wearing Compression Stockings

Follow instructions on how long each day you need to wear your compression
stockings. You may need to wear them all day.

The stockings should feel strong around your legs. You will feel the most
pressure around your ankles and less pressure higher up your legs.

## Putting on Your Compression Stockings

Put on stockings first thing in the morning before you get out of bed. Your
legs have the least amount of swelling early in the morning.

    * Hold the top of the stocking and roll it down to the heel.
    * Put your foot into the stocking as far as you can. Put your heel in the heel of the stocking.
    * Pull the stocking up. Unroll the stocking over your leg.
    * After the top of the stocking is in place, smooth out any wrinkles.
    * Do not let the stockings bunch up or wrinkle.
    * Knee length stockings should come to 2 fingers below the knee bend.

## Compression Stockings can be Hard to put on

If it's hard for you to put on the stockings, try these tips:

    * Apply lotion on your legs but let it dry before you put on the stockings.
    * Use a little baby powder or cornstarch on your legs. This may help the stockings slide up.
    * Put on rubber dishwashing gloves to help adjust the stockings and smooth them out.
    * Use a special gadget called a stocking donner to slide the stocking over your foot. You can buy a donner at a medical supply store or online.

## Wash Your Stockings Every Day

Keep the stockings clean:

    * Wash the stockings each day with mild soap and water. Rinse and air dry.
    * If you can, have 2 pairs. Wear 1 pair each day. Wash and dry the other pair.
    * Replace your stockings every 3 to 6 months so that they maintain their support. 

## When to Call the Doctor

If your stockings feel too uncomfortable, call your provider. Find out if
there is a different kind of stocking that will work for you. Do not stop
wearing them without talking to your provider.

## Alternative Names

Compression hose; Pressure stockings; Support stockings; Gradient stockings;
Varicose veins - compression stockings; Venous insufficiency - compression
stockings

## Images

    * ![Pressure stockings](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22910t.jpg)Pressure stockings

## References

Caprini JA, Arcelus JI, Tafur AJ. Venous thromboembolic disease: mechanical
and pharmacologic prophylaxis. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's
Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 146.

Lim CS, Davies AH. Graduated compression stockings. _CMAJ_.
2014;186(10):E391-E398. PMID 24591279 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24591279.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Deep Vein Thrombosis
    * Lymphedema

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

