Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000431.htm    
                                Description: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that leads to inflammation of the joints and surrounding tissues. It is a long-term disease. It can also affect other organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rheumatoid arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000431.htm

# Rheumatoid arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that leads to inflammation of the
joints and surrounding tissues. It is a long-term disease. It can also affect
other organs.

## Causes

The cause of RA is not known. It is an autoimmune disease. This means the
immune system of the body mistakenly attacks healthy tissue.

![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19712.jpg)

RA can occur at any age, but is more common in middle age. Women get RA more
often than men.

Infection, genes, and hormone changes may be linked to the disease. Smoking
may also be linked to RA.

It is less common than osteoarthritis (OA). OA which is a condition that
occurs in many people due to wear and tear on the joints as they age.

## Symptoms

Most of the time, RA affects joints on both sides of the body equally.
Fingers, wrists, knees, feet, elbows, ankles, hips and shoulders are the most
commonly affected.

The disease often begins slowly. Early symptoms may include:

    * Minor joint painÂ 
    * StiffnessÂ 
    * Fatigue 

Joint symptoms may include:

    * Morning stiffness, which lasts more than 1 hour, is common.Â 
    * Joints may feel warm, tender, and stiff when not used for an hour.
    * Joint pain is often felt in the same joint on both sides of the body.Â 
    * Joints are often swollen.
    * Over time, joints may lose their range of motion and may become deformed. 
![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17130.jpg)

Other symptoms include:

    * Chest pain when taking a breath (pleurisy)
    * Dry eyes and mouth (SjÃ¶gren syndrome)
    * Eye burning, itching, and discharge
    * Nodules under the skin (most often a sign of more severe disease)
    * Numbness, tingling, or burning in the hands and feet
    * Sleep difficulties 

## Exams and Tests

There is no test that can determine for sure whether you have RA. Most people
with RA will have some abnormal test results. However, some people will have
normal results for all tests.

Two lab tests that are positive in most people and often help in the diagnosis
are:

    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Anti-CCP antibody 

These tests are positive in most patients with RA. The anti-CCP antibody test
is more specific for RA.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * C-reactive protein
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate
    * Joint x-rays
    * Joint ultrasound or MRI
    * Joint fluid analysis

## Treatment

RA most often requires long-term treatment by an expert in arthritis called a
rheumatologist. Treatment includes:

    * Medicines
    * Physical therapy
    * Exercise
    * Education
    * Surgery, if required 

Early treatment for RA with medicines called disease-modifying antirheumatic
drugs (DMARDS) should be used in all patients. This will slow joint
destruction and prevent deformities. The activity of the RA should be checked
at regular visits to make sure the disease is under control. The goal of
treatment is to stop the progression of the RA.

MEDICINES

Anti-inflammatory medicines: These include aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, naproxen and celecoxib.

    * These medicines work very well to reduce joint swelling and inflammation, but they can have long-term side effects. Therefore, they should be taken only for a short time and in low doses when possible.
    * Since they do not prevent joint damage if used alone, DMARDS should be used as well. 

Disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs): These are often the medicines
that are tried first in people with RA. They are prescribed along with rest,
strengthening exercise, and anti-inflammatory drugs.

    * Methotrexate is the most commonly used DMARD for rheumatoid arthritis. Leflunomide and hydroxychloroquine may also be used.
    * Sulfasalazine is a drug that is often combined with methotrexate and hydroxychloroquine (triple therapy).
    * It may be weeks or months before you see any benefit from these drugs.
    * These drugs may have serious side effects, so you will need frequent blood tests when taking them.
    * Antimalarial medicines: This group of medicines includes hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil). They are most often used along with methotrexate. It may be weeks or months before you see any benefit from these drugs. 

Corticosteroids: These medicines work very well to reduce joint swelling and
inflammation, but they can have long-term side effects. Therefore, they should
be taken only for a short time and in low doses when possible.

Biologic DMARD agents: These medicines are designed to affect parts of the
immune system that play a role in the disease process of RA.

    * They may be given when other medicines, usually methotrexate, have not worked. Usually biologic drugs are added to methotrexate. However, because they are very expensive, insurance approval is generally required.
    * Most of them are given either under the skin or into a vein There are now many different types of biologic agents. 

Biologic agents can be very helpful in treating RA. However, people taking
these medicines must be watched closely because of uncommon but serious
adverse reactions:

    * Infections from bacteria, viruses, and fungi
    * Skin cancer, but not melanoma
    * Skin reactions
    * Allergic reactions
    * Worsened heart failure
    * Damage to nerves
    * Low white blood count 

SURGERY

Surgery may be needed to correct severely damaged joints. Surgery may include:

    * Removal of the joint lining (synovectomy)
    * Total joint replacement in extreme cases may include total knee replacement (TKR) and hip replacement. 

PHYSICAL THERAPY

Range-of-motion exercises and exercise programs prescribed by a physical
therapist can delay the loss of joint function and help keep muscles strong.

Sometimes, therapists will use special machines to apply deep heat or
electrical stimulation to reduce pain and improve joint movement.

Other therapies that may help ease joint pain include:

    * Joint protection techniques
    * Heat and cold treatments
    * Splints or orthotic devices to support and align joints
    * Frequent rest periods between activities, as well as 8 to 10 hours of sleep per night 

NUTRITION

Some people with RA may have intolerance or allergies to certain foods. A
balanced nutritious diet is recommended. It may be helpful to eat foods rich
in fish oils (omega-3 fatty acids). Smoking cigarettes should be stopped.
Excessive alcohol should also be avoided.

## Support Groups

Some people may benefit from taking part in an arthritis support group.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the severity of symptoms and the response to
treatment. It is important to start the treatment as soon as possible. Regular
follow up visits are needed to adjust the treatment.

Permanent joint damage may occur without proper treatment. Early treatment
with a three-medicine DMARD combination known as "triple therapy," or with the
biologic DMARD medicines, can prevent joint pain and damage.

## Possible Complications

If not well treated, RA can affect nearly every part of the body.
Complications may include:

    * Damage to the lung tissue.
    * Increased risk of hardening of the arteries.
    * Spinal injury when the neck bones become damaged.
    * Inflammation of the blood vessels (rheumatoid vasculitis), which can lead to skin, nerve, heart, and brain problems.
    * Swelling and inflammation of the outer lining of the heart (pericarditis) and of the heart muscle (myocarditis), which can lead to congestive heart failure. 

However, these complications can be avoided with proper treatment. The
treatments for RA can also cause serious side effects. Talk to your provider
about the possible side effects of treatment and what to do if they occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think you have symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Smoking appears to worsen RA. So it is important
to avoid tobacco. Proper early treatment can help prevent further joint
damage.

## Alternative Names

RA; Arthritis - rheumatoid

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Ankle replacement - discharge 
    * Elbow replacement - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17128t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis
    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17130t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis
    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19712t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis

## References

Aronson JK. Methotrexate. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V; 2016:886-911.

O'Dell JR. Rheumatoid arthritis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 264.

O'Dell JR, Mikuls TR, Taylor TH, et al. Therapies for active rheumatoid
arthritis after methotrexate failure. _N Engl J Med_. 2013;369(4):307-318.
PMID: 23755969 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23755969.

O'Dell JR. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 71.

Singh JA, Saag KG, Bridges SL, et al. 2015 American College of Rheumatology
guideline for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. _Arthritis Rheumatol_.
2016;68(1):1-26. PMID: 26545940 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26545940.

## Review Date 1/29/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

