Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000113.htm    
                                Description: Rheumatoid lung disease is a group of lung problems related to rheumatoid arthritis. The condition can include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rheumatoid lung disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000113.htm

# Rheumatoid lung disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rheumatoid lung disease is a group of lung problems related to rheumatoid
arthritis. The condition can include:

    * Blockage of the small airways (bronchiolitis obliterans)
    * Fluid in the chest (pleural effusions)
    * High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension)
    * Lumps in the lungs (nodules)
    * Scarring (pulmonary fibrosis)

## Causes

Lung problemsÂ are common in rheumatoid arthritis. They often cause no
symptoms.

The cause of lung disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis is unknown.
Sometimes, the medicines used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, especially
methotrexate, may result in lung disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough 
    * Fever
    * Shortness of breath
    * Joint pain, stiffness,Â swelling
    * Skin nodules

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Symptoms depend on the type of lung disease rheumatoid arthritis is causing in
the lungs.

The provider may hear crackles (rales) when listening to the lungs with a
stethoscope. Or, there may be decreased breath sounds, wheezing, a rubbing
sound, or normal breath sounds. When listening to the heart, there may be
abnormal heart sounds.

The following tests may show signs of rheumatoid lung disease:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Echocardiogram (may show pulmonary hypertension)
    * Lung biopsy (bronchoscopic, video-assisted, or open)
    * Lung function tests
    * Needle inserted into the fluid around the lung (thoracentesis)
    * Blood tests for rheumatoid arthritis  

## Treatment

Many people with this condition have no symptoms. Treatment is aimed at theÂ
health problems causing the lung problemÂ and the complications caused by the
disorder. Corticosteroids or other medicines that suppress the immune system
are sometimes useful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome is related to the underlying disorder and the type and severity of
lung disease. In severe cases, lung transplantation can be considered.Â This
is more common in cases of bronchiolitis obliterans, pulmonary fibrosis, or
pulmonary hypertension.

## Possible Complications

Rheumatoid lung disease may lead to:

    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)
    * Pulmonary hypertension 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your providerÂ right awayÂ if you have rheumatoid arthritis and you
develop unexplained breathing difficulties.

## Alternative Names

Lung disease - rheumatoid arthritis; Rheumatoid nodules; Rheumatoid lung

## Patient Instructions

    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bronchoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23232t.jpg)Bronchoscopy
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Corte TJ, Du Bois RM, Wells AU. Connective tissue diseases. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

Yunt ZX, Solomon JJ. Lung disease in rheumatoid arthritis. _Rheum Dis Clin
North Am_. 2015;41(2):225â236. PMID: PMC4415514Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4415514.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

