Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000445.htm    
                                Description: Felty syndrome is a disorder that includes rheumatoid arthritis, a swollen spleen, decreased white blood cell count, and repeated infections. It is rare.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Felty syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000445.htm

# Felty syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Felty syndrome is a disorder that includes rheumatoid arthritis, a swollen
spleen, decreased white blood cell count, and repeated infections. It is rare.

## Causes

The cause of Felty syndrome is unknown. It is more common in people who have
had rheumatoid arthritis (RA) for a long time. People with this syndrome are
at risk for infection because they have a low white blood cell count.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * General feeling of discomfort (malaise)
    * Fatigue
    * Weakness in leg or arm
    * Loss of appetite
    * Unintentional weight loss
    * Ulcers in the skin
    * Joint swelling, stiffness, pain, and deformity
    * Recurrent infections
    * Red eye with burning or discharge

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam will show:

    * Swollen spleen
    * Joints that show signs of RA
    * Possibly swollen liver and lymph nodes 

A complete blood count (CBC) with differential will show a low number of white
blood cells called neutrophils. Nearly all people with Felty syndrome have a
positive test for rheumatoid factor.

An abdominal ultrasound may confirm a swollen spleen.

## Treatment

In most cases, people who have this syndrome are not getting recommended
treatment for RA. They may need other medicines to suppress their immune
system and reduce the activity of their RA.

Methotrexate may improve the low neutrophil count. The drug rituximab has been
successful in people who do not respond to methotrexate.

Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) may raise the neutrophil count.

Some people benefit from removal of the spleen (splenectomy).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, infections may continue to occur.

RA is likely to get worse.

Treating the RA, however, should improve Felty syndrome.

## Possible Complications

You may have infections that keep coming back.

Some people with Felty syndrome have increased numbers of large granular
lymphocytes, also called LGL leukemia. This will be treated with methotrexate
in many cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of RA with currently recommended medicines markedly decreases
the risk of developing Felty syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Seropositive rheumatoid arthritis (RA); Felty's syndrome

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Bellistri JP, Muscarella P. Splenectomy for hematologic disorders. In: Cameron
JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:603-610.

Erickson AR, Cannella AC, Mikuls TR. Clinical features of rheumatoid
arthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 70.

Gazitt T, Loughran TP Jr. Chronic neutropenia in LGL leukemia and rheumatoid
arthritis. _Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program_. 2017;2017(1):181-186.
PMID: 29222254 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222254.

Myasoedova E, Turesson C, Matteson EL. Extraarticular features of rheumatoid
arthritis. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME,
Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
95.

Savola P, BrÃ¼ck O, Olson T, et al. Somatic _STAT3_ mutations in Felty
syndrome: an implication for a common pathogenesis with large granular
lymphocyte leukemia. _Haematologica_. 2018;103(2):304-312. PMID: 29217783
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29217783.

Wang CR, Chiu YC, Chen YC. Successful treatment of refractory neutropenia in
Felty's syndrome with rituximab. _Scand J Rheumatol_. 2018;47(4):340-341.
PMID: 28753121 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28753121.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

