Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000137.htm    
                                Description: Rheumatoid pneumoconiosis (RP, also known as Caplan syndrome) is swelling (inflammation) and scarring of the lungs. It occurs in people with rheumatoid arthritis who have breathed in dust, such as from    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rheumatoid pneumoconiosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000137.htm

# Rheumatoid pneumoconiosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rheumatoid pneumoconiosis (RP, also known as Caplan syndrome) is swelling
(inflammation) and scarring of the lungs. It occurs in people with rheumatoid
arthritis who have breathed in dust, such as from coal (coal worker's
pneumoconiosis) or silica.

## Causes

RP is caused by breathing in inorganic dust. This is dust that comes from
grinding metals, minerals, or rock. After the dust enters the lungs, it causes
inflammation. This can lead to the formation of many small lumps in the lungs
and an airway disease similar to mild asthma.

It is not clear how RP develops. There are two theories:

    * When people breathe in inorganic dust, it affects their immune system and leads to rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RA is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system attacks healthy body tissue by mistake.
    * When people who already have RA or are at high risk for it are exposed to mineral dust, they develop RP.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of RP are:

    * Cough
    * Joint swelling and pain
    * Lumps under the skin (rheumatoid nodules)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take a detailed medical history. It will
include questions about your jobs (past and present) and other possible
sources of exposure to inorganic dust. Your provider will also do a physical
exam, paying special attention to any joint and skin disease.

Other tests can include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Joint x-rays
    * Pulmonary function tests
    * Rheumatoid factor test and other blood tests

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for RP, other than treating any lung and joint
disease.

## Support Groups

Attending a support group with people who have the same disease or a similar
disease can help you understand your condition better. It can also help you
adjust to your treatment and lifestyle changes. Support groups take place
online and in person. Ask your provider about a support group that might help
you.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

RP rarely causes serious breathing trouble or disability due to lung problems.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur from RP:

    * Increased risk for tuberculosis
    * Scarring in the lungs (progressive massive fibrosis)
    * Side effects from medicines you take

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of RP.

Talk to your provider about getting the flu and pneumonia vaccines.

If you've been diagnosed with RP, call your provider right away if you develop
a cough, shortness of breath, fever, or other signs of a lung infection,
especially if you think you have the flu. Since your lungs are already
damaged, it's very important to have the infection treated promptly. This will
prevent breathing problems from becoming severe, as well as further damage to
your lungs.

## Prevention

People with RA should avoid exposure to inorganic dust.

## Alternative Names

RP; Caplan syndrome; Pneumoconiosis - rheumatoid; Silicosis - rheumatoid
pneumoconiosis; Coal worker's pneumoconiosis - rheumatoid pneumoconiosis

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Corte TJ, Du Bois RM, Wells AU. Connective tissue diseases. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

Cowie RL, Becklake MR. Pneumoconioses. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

Raghu G, Martinez FJ. Interstitial lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
86.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 87.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![Occupational
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OccupationalHealth_thumb.jpg)Occupational
Health _Read more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

