Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000816.htm    
                                Description: An autoimmune disorder occurs when the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Autoimmune disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000816.htm

# Autoimmune disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An autoimmune disorder occurs when the body's immune system attacks and
destroys healthy body tissue by mistake. There are more than 80 types of
autoimmune disorders.

## Causes

The blood cells in the body's immune system help protect against harmful
substances. Examples include bacteria, viruses, toxins, cancer cells, and
blood and tissue from outside the body. These substances contain antigens. The
immune system produces antibodies against these antigens that enable it to
destroy these harmful substances.

When you have an autoimmune disorder, your immune system does not distinguish
between healthy tissue and potentially harmful antigens. As a result, the body
sets off a reaction that destroys normal tissues.

The exact cause of autoimmune disorders is unknown. One theory is that some
microorganisms (such as bacteria or viruses) or drugs may trigger changes that
confuse the immune system. This may happen more often in people who have genes
that make them more prone to autoimmune disorders.

An autoimmune disorder may result in:

    * The destruction of body tissue
    * Abnormal growth of an organ
    * Changes in organ function 

An autoimmune disorder may affect one or more organ or tissue types. Areas
often affected by autoimmune disorders include:

    * Blood vessels
    * Connective tissues
    * Endocrine glands such as the thyroid or pancreas
    * Joints
    * Muscles
    * Red blood cells
    * Skin 

A person may have more than one autoimmune disorder at the same time. Common
autoimmune disorders include:

    * Addison disease
    * Celiac disease - sprue (gluten-sensitive enteropathy)
    * Dermatomyositis
    * Graves disease
    * Hashimoto thyroiditis
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Myasthenia gravis
    * Pernicious anemia
    * Reactive arthritis
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Type I diabetes

## Symptoms

Symptoms will vary, based on the type and location of the faulty immune
response. Common symptoms include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Joint pain
    * Rash

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. Signs depend on the type of
disease.

Tests that may be done to diagnose an autoimmune disorder include:

    * Antinuclear antibody tests
    * Autoantibody tests
    * CBC
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel
    * C-reactive protein (CRP)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Urinalysis 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

    * Control the autoimmune process
    * Maintain the body's ability to fight disease
    * Reduce symptoms

Treatments will depend on your disease and symptoms. Types of treatments
include:

    * Supplements to replace a substance that the body lacks, such as thyroid hormone, vitamin B12, or insulin, due to the autoimmune disease
    * Blood transfusions if blood is affected
    * Physical therapy to help with movement if the bones, joints, or muscles are affected 

Many people take medicines to reduce the immune system's abnormal response.
These are often called immunosuppressive medicines. Examples include
corticosteroids (such as prednisone) and nonsteroid drugs such as
azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate, sirolimus, or tacrolimus.
Targeted drugs such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers and Interleukin
inhibitors can be used for some diseases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the disease. Most autoimmune diseases are chronic, but
many can be controlled with treatment.

Symptoms of autoimmune disorders can come and go. When symptoms get worse, it
is called a flare-up.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the disease. Medicines used to suppress the immune
system can cause severe side effects, such as higher risk of infections.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of an autoimmune disorder.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for most autoimmune disorders.

## Images

    * ![Graves disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17067t.jpg)Graves disease
    * ![Hashimoto's disease \(chronic thyroiditis\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17068t.jpg)Hashimoto's disease (chronic thyroiditis)
    * ![Multiple sclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17089t.jpg)Multiple sclerosis
    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17128t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis
    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17129t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis
    * ![Systemic lupus erythematosus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17134t.jpg)Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * ![Synovial fluid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19698t.jpg)Synovial fluid
    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19712t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Kono DH, Theofilopoulos AN. Autoimmunity. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel
SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Diseases of the immune system. In: Kumar V, Abbas
AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 6.

Peakman M, Buckland MS. The immune system and disease. In: Kumar P, Clark M,
eds. _Kumar and Clarke's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Winter WE, Harris NS, Merkel KL, Collinsworth AL, Clapp WL. Organ-specific
autoimmune diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

