Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000245.htm    
                                Description: Autoimmune hepatitis is inflammation of the liver. It occurs when immune cells mistake the liver    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Autoimmune hepatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000245.htm

# Autoimmune hepatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Autoimmune hepatitis is inflammation of the liver. It occurs when immune cells
mistake the liver's normal cells for harmful invaders and attack them.

## Causes

This form of hepatitis is an autoimmune disease. The body's immune system
cannot tell the difference between healthy body tissue and harmful, outside
substances. The result is an immune response that destroys normal body
tissues.

Liver inflammation, or hepatitis, may occur along with other autoimmune
diseases. These include:

    * Graves disease
    * Inflammatory bowel disease
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Scleroderma
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Thyroiditis
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Ulcerative colitis

Autoimmune hepatitis may occur in family members of people with autoimmune
diseases. There may be a genetic cause.

This disease is most common in young girls and women.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fatigue
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Itching
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Joint pain
    * Pale or clay-colored stools
    * Dark urine
    * Abdominal distention

Absence of menstruation (amenorrhea) may also be a symptom.

## Exams and Tests

Tests for autoimmune hepatitis include the following blood tests:

    * Liver function tests
    * Anti-liver kidney microsome type 1 antibody (anti LKM-1)
    * Anti-nuclear antibody (ANA)
    * Anti-smooth muscle antibody (SMA)
    * Serum IgG
    * Liver biopsy to look for long-termÂ hepatitis 

## Treatment

You may need prednisone or other corticosteroid medicines to help reduce the
inflammation. Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine are drugs used to treat other
autoimmune disorders. They have been shown to help people with autoimmune
hepatitis, as well.

Some people may need a liver transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. Corticosteroid medicines may slow the progress of the
disease. However, autoimmune hepatitis may advance to cirrhosis. This would
require a liver transplant.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Cirrhosis
    * Side effects from steroids and other medicines
    * Hepatocellular carcinoma
    * Liver failure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis.

## Prevention

Autoimmune hepatitis cannot be prevented in most cases. Knowing the risk
factors may help you detect and treat the disease early.

## Alternative Names

Lupoid hepatitis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Czaja AJ. Autoimmune hepatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

Pawlotsky J-M. Chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 149.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

