Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003328.htm    
                                Description: An autoimmune liver disease panel is a group of tests that is done to check for autoimmune liver disease. An autoimmune liver disease means that the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Autoimmune liver disease panel

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003328.htm

# Autoimmune liver disease panel

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An autoimmune liver disease panel is a group of tests that is done to check
for autoimmune liver disease. An autoimmune liver disease means that the
body's immune system attacks the liver.

These tests include:

    * Anti-liver/kidney microsomal antibodies
    * Anti-mitochondrial antibodies
    * Anti-nuclear antibodies
    * Anti-smooth muscle antibodies
    * Serum IgG

The panel may also include other tests. Often, immune protein levels in the
blood are also checked.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is taken from a vein.

The blood sample is sent to the lab for testing.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to take special steps before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted to draw blood.
Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Autoimmune disorders are a possible cause of liver disease. The most common of
these diseases are autoimmune hepatitis and primary biliary cholangitis
(formerly called primary biliary cirrhosis).

This group of tests helps your health care provider diagnose liver disease.

## Normal Results

PROTEIN LEVELS:

The normal range for protein levels in the blood will change with each
laboratory. Please check with your provider for the normal ranges in your
particular laboratory.

ANTIBODIES:

Negative results on all antibodies are normal.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Blood tests for autoimmune diseases are not wholly accurate. They can have
false negative results (you have the disease, but the test is negative) and
false positive results (you do not have the disease, but the test is
positive).

A weakly positive or low titer positive test for autoimmune disease is often
not due to any disease.

A positive test on the panel may be a sign of autoimmune hepatitis or other
autoimmune liver disease.

If the test is positive mostly for anti-mitochondrial antibodies, you are
likely to have primary biliary cholangitis. If the immune proteins are high
and albumin is low, you may have liver cirrhosis or chronic active hepatitis.

## Risks

Slight risks from having blood drawn include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Liver disease test panel - autoimmune

## Images

    * ![Liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8850t.jpg)Liver

## References

Bowlus C, Assis DN, Goldberg D. Primary and secondary sclerosing cholangitis.
In: Sanyal AJ, Boyter TD, Lindor KD, Terrault NA, eds. _Zakim and Boyer's
Hepatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Czaja AJ. Autoimmune hepatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease:Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

Eaton JE, Lindor KD. Primary biliary cirrhosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 91.

Pawlotsky JM. Chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 149.

## Review Date 12/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

