Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000363.htm    
                                Description: Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a rare disorder passed down through families (inherited). It involves repeated fevers and inflammation that often affects the lining of the abdomen, chest, or joints.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial Mediterranean fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000363.htm

# Familial Mediterranean fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is a rare disorder passed down through
families (inherited). It involves repeated fevers and inflammation that often
affects the lining of the abdomen, chest, or joints.

## Causes

FMF is most often caused by a mutation in a gene named _MEFV_. This gene
creates a protein involved in inflammation.

FMF most often affects people of Mediterranean ancestry. These include non-
Ashkenazi (Sephardic) Jews, Armenians, and Arabs. People from other ethnic
groups can also be affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually begin between ages 5 and 15. Inflammation in the lining of
the abdominal cavity, chest cavity, skin, or joints occurs along with high
fevers that usually peak in 12 to 24 hours. Attacks may vary in severity of
symptoms. People are usually symptom-free between attacks.

Symptoms may include repeated episodes of:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Chest pain that is sharp and gets worse when taking a breath
    * Fever or alternating chills and fever
    * Joint pain
    * Skin sores (lesions) that are red and swollen and range from 5 to 20 cm in diameter

## Exams and Tests

If genetic testing shows that you have the _MEFV_ gene mutation and your
symptoms match the typical pattern, the diagnosis is nearly certain.
Laboratory tests or x-rays can rule out other possible diseases to help make
the diagnosis.

Levels of certain blood tests may be higher than normal when done during an
attack. Tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) that includes white blood cell count
    * C-reactive protein to check for inflammation
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) to check for inflammation
    * Fibrinogen test to check blood clotting

## Treatment

The goal of treatment for FMF is to control symptoms. Colchicine, a medicine
that reduces inflammation, may help during an attack and may prevent further
attacks. It can also help prevent a serious complication called systemic
amyloidosis, which is common in people with FMF.

NSAIDs may be used to treat fever and pain.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on FMF:

    * American College of Rheumatology -- www.rheumatology.org/I-Am-A/Patient-Caregiver/Diseases-Conditions/Familial-Mediterranean-Fever-Juvenile
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/familial-mediterranean-fever
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/familial-mediterranean-fever

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is no known cure for FMF. Most people continue to have attacks, but the
number and severity of attacks is different from person to person.

## Possible Complications

Amyloidosis may lead to kidney damage or not being able to absorb nutrients
from food (malabsorption). Fertility problems in women and men and arthritis
are also complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child develops symptoms of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Familial paroxysmal polyserositis; Periodic peritonitis; Recurrent
polyserositis; Benign paroxysmal peritonitis; Periodic disease; Periodic
fever; FMF

## Images

    * ![Temperature measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9961t.jpg)Temperature measurement

## References

Ombrello AK, Kastner DL. Hereditary periodic fever syndromes and other
systemic autoinflammatory diseases. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 163.

Shohat M. Familial Mediterranean fever. _GeneReviews_. 2016; Dec 15. PMID:
20301405 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301405.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fever_thumb.jpg)Fever _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

