Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000845.htm    
                                Description: Hives are raised, often itchy, red bumps (welts) on the surface of the skin. They can be an allergic reaction to food or medicine. They can also appear without cause.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hives

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000845.htm

# Hives

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hives are raised, often itchy, red bumps (welts) on the surface of the skin.
They can be an allergic reaction to food or medicine. They can also appear
without cause.

## Causes

When you have an allergic reaction to a substance, your body releases
histamine and other chemicals into the blood. This causes itching, swelling,
and other symptoms. Hives are a common reaction. People with other allergies,
such as hay fever, often get hives.

Angioedema is swelling of the deeper tissue that sometimes occurs with hives.
Like hives, angioedema can occur on any part of the body. When it occurs
around the mouth or throat, the symptoms can be severe, including airway
blockage.

Many substances can trigger hives, including:

    * Animal dander (especially cats)
    * Insect bites
    * Medicines
    * Pollen
    * Shellfish, fish, nuts, eggs, milk, and other foods 

Hives may also develop as a result of:

    * Emotional stress
    * Extreme cold or sun exposure
    * Excessive perspiration
    * Illness, including lupus, other autoimmune diseases, and leukemia
    * Infections such as mononucleosis
    * Exercise
    * Exposure to water 

Often, the cause of hives is not known.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of hives may include any of the following:

    * Itching.
    * Swelling of the surface of the skin into red- or skin-colored welts (called wheals) with clearly defined edges.
    * Wheals may get bigger, spread, and join together to form larger areas of flat, raised skin.
    * Wheals often change shape, disappear, and reappear within minutes or hours. It is unusual for a wheal to last more than 48 hours.
    * Dermatographism, or skin writing, is a type of hives. It is caused by pressure on the skin and results in immediate hives in the area that has been pressed on or scratched. 
![Hives \(urticaria\) - close-
up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2482.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can tell if you have hives by looking at your skin.

![Hives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19325.jpg)

If you have a history of an allergy causing hives, for example, to
strawberries, the diagnosis is even clearer.

Sometimes, a skin biopsy or blood tests are done to confirm that you had an
allergic reaction, and to test for the substance that caused the allergic
response. However, specific allergy testing is not useful in most cases of
hives.

## Treatment

Treatment may not be needed if the hives are mild. They may disappear on their
own. To reduce itching and swelling:

    * Do not take hot baths or showers.
    * Do not wear tight-fitting clothing, which can irritate the area.
    * Your provider may suggest that you take an antihistamine such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl) or cetirizine (Zyrtec). Follow your provider's instructions or the package instructions about how to take the medicine.
    * Other oral prescription medicines may be needed, especially if the hives are chronic (long-lasting). 

If your reaction is severe, especially if the swelling involves your throat,
you may need an emergency shot of epinephrine (adrenaline) or steroids. Hives
in the throat can block your airway, making it difficult to breathe.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hives may be uncomfortable, but they are usually harmless and disappear on
their own.

When the condition lasts longer than 6 weeks, it is called chronic hives.
Usually no cause can be found. Most chronic hives resolve on their own in less
than 1 year.

## Possible Complications

Complications of hives may include:

    * Anaphylaxis (a life-threatening, whole-body allergic reaction that causes breathing difficulty)
    * Swelling in the throat can lead to life-threatening airway blockage 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you have:

    * Fainting
    * Shortness of breath
    * Tightness in your throat
    * Tongue or face swelling
    * Wheezing

Call your provider if the hives are severe, uncomfortable, and do not respond
to self-care measures.

## Prevention

To help prevent hives avoid exposure to substances that give you allergic
reactions.

## Alternative Names

Urticaria - hives; Wheals

## Images

    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1651t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) - close-up
    * ![Food allergies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19326t.jpg)Food allergies
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2481t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the chest
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the trunk](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2483t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the trunk
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2782t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the chest
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the back and buttocks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2779t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the back and buttocks
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2781t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the back
    * ![Hives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19325t.jpg)Hives
    * ![Hives treatment](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9413t.jpg)Hives treatment

## References

Habif TP. Urticaria, angioedema, and pruritus. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Erythema and
urticaria. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2020:chap 7.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Hives](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hives2_thumb.jpg)Hives _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

