Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001340.htm    
                                Description: Enteric cytopathic human orphan (ECHO) viruses are a group of viruses that can lead to infections in different parts of the body, and skin rashes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ECHO virus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001340.htm

# ECHO virus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enteric cytopathic human orphan (ECHO) viruses are a group of viruses that can
lead to infections in different parts of the body, and skin rashes.

## Causes

Echovirus is one of several families of viruses that affect the
gastrointestinal tract. Together, these are called enteroviruses. These
infections are common. In the United States, they are most common in the
summer and fall. You can catch the virus if you come into contact with stool
contaminated by the virus, and possibly by breathing in air particles from an
infected person.

Serious infections with ECHO viruses are much less common but can be
significant. For example, some cases of viral meningitis (inflammation of the
tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord) is caused by an ECHO virus.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the site of infection and may include:

    * CroupÂ (breathing difficulty and harsh cough)
    * Mouth sores
    * Skin rashes
    * Sore throat
    * Chest pain if the infection affects the heart muscle or sac-like covering around the heart (pericarditis)
    * Severe headache, mental status changes, fever and chills, nausea and vomiting, sensitivity to light, if the infection affects the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord (meningitis) 

## Exams and Tests

Because the illness is often mild and has no specific treatment, testing for
echovirus is often not done.

If needed, ECHO virus can be identified from:

    * Rectal culture
    * Spinal fluid culture
    * Stool culture
    * Throat culture

## Treatment

ECHO virus infections almost always clear up on their own. No specific
medicines are available to fight the virus. Immune system treatment called
IVIG may help people with severe ECHO virus infections who have a weakened
immune system.Â Antibiotics are not effective against this virus, or any other
virus.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have the less severe types of illness should recover completely
without treatment. Infections of organs such as the heart may cause severe
disease and can be deadly.

## Possible Complications

Complications vary with the site and type of infection. Heart infections may
be deadly, while most other types of infection improve on their own.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any of the symptoms listed above.

## Prevention

No specific preventive measures are available for ECHO virus infections other
than hand-washing, especially when you are in contact with sick people.
Currently, no vaccines are available.

## Alternative Names

Nonpolio enterovirus infection; Echovirus infection

## Images

    * ![ECHO virus type 9 - exanthem](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1329t.jpg)ECHO virus type 9 - exanthem
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Romero JR. Enteroviruses. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 379.

Romero JR, Modlin JF. Introduction to the human enteroviruses and
parechoviruses. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 172.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

