Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000968.htm    
                                Description: Roseola is a viral infection that commonly affects infants and young children. It involves a pinkish-red skin rash and high fever.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Roseola

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000968.htm

# Roseola

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Roseola is a viral infection that commonly affects infants and young children.
It involves a pinkish-red skin rash and high fever.

## Causes

Roseola is common in children ages 3 months to 4 years, and most common in
those ages 6 months to 1 year.

It is caused by a virus called human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), although similar
syndromes are possible with other viruses.

## Symptoms

The time between becoming infected and the beginning of symptoms (incubation
period) is 5 to 15 days.

The first symptoms include:

    * Eye redness
    * Irritability
    * Runny nose
    * Sore throat
    * High fever, that comes on quickly and may be as high as 105Â°F (40.5Â°C) and can last 3 to 7 days 

About 2 to 4 days after becoming sick, the child's fever lowers and a rash
appears. This rash most often:

    * Starts on the middle of the body and spreads to the arms, legs, neck, and face
    * Is pink or rose-colored
    * Has small sores that are slightly raised 

The rash lasts from a few hours to 2 to 3 days. It usually does not itch.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
the child's medical history. The child may have swollen lymph nodes in the
neck or back of the scalp.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for roseola. The disease most often gets better
on its own without complications.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and cool sponge baths can help reduce the fever. Some
children may have seizures when they get a high fever. If this occurs, call
your provider or go to the closest emergency room.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Aseptic meningitis (rare) 
    * Encephalitis (rare)
    * Febrile seizure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child:

    * Has a fever that does not go down with the use of acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) and a cool bath
    * Continues to appear very sick
    * Is irritable or seems extremely tired 

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
your child has convulsions.

## Prevention

Careful handwashing can help prevent the spread of the viruses that cause
roseola.

## Alternative Names

Exanthem subitum; Sixth disease

## Images

    * ![Roseola](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17255t.jpg)Roseola
    * ![Temperature measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9961t.jpg)Temperature measurement

## References

Cherry J. Roseola infantum (exanthem subitum). In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ,
Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of
Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
59.

Tesini BL, Caserta MT. Roseola (human herpesviruses 6 and 7). In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 283.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

