Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000969.htm    
                                Description: Herpangina is a viral illness that involves ulcers and sores (lesions) inside the mouth, a sore throat, and fever.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Herpangina

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000969.htm

# Herpangina

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Herpangina is a viral illness that involves ulcers and sores (lesions) inside
the mouth, a sore throat, and fever.

Hand, foot, and mouth disease is a related topic.

## Causes

Herpangina is a common childhood infection. It is most often seen in children
ages 3 to 10, but it can occur in any age group.

It is most often caused by Coxsackie group A viruses. These viruses are
contagious. Your child is at risk for herpangina if someone at school or home
has the illness.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Sore throat, or painful swallowing
    * Ulcers in the mouth and throat, and similar sores on the feet, hands, and buttocks 

The ulcers most often have a white to whitish-gray base and a red border. They
may be very painful. In most cases, there are only a few sores.

## Exams and Tests

Tests are not normally necessary. Your health care provider can most often
diagnose this condition by doing a physical exam and asking questions about
the child's symptoms and medical history.

## Treatment

The symptoms are treated as necessary:

    * Take acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Motrin) by mouth for fever and discomfort as the doctor recommends.
    * Increase fluid intake, especially cold milk products. Gargle with cool water or try eating popsicles. Avoid hot beverages and citrus fruits.
    * Eat a non-irritating diet. (Cold milk products, including ice cream, are often the best choices during herpangina infection. Fruit juices are too acidic and tend to irritate the mouth sores.) Avoid spicy, fried, or hot foods.
    * Use topical anesthetics for the mouth (these may contain benzocaine or xylocaine and are usually not required).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The illness normally clears up within a week.

## Possible Complications

Dehydration is the most common complication, but it can be treated by your
provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Fever, sore throat, or mouth sores last for more than 5 days
    * Your child is having trouble drinking liquids or looks dehydrated
    * Fever becomes very high or does not go away 

## Prevention

Good handwashing can help prevent the spread of the viruses that lead to this
infection.

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Mouth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8880t.jpg)Mouth anatomy

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Viral diseases. In:
James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews'
Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 19.

Messacar K, Abzug MJ. Nonpolio enteroviruses. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 277.

Romero JR. Coxsackieviruses, echoviruses, and numbered enteroviruses (EV-A71,
EVD-68, EVD-70). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 172.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

