Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000965.htm    
                                Description: Hand-foot-mouth disease is a common viral infection that most often begins in the throat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hand-foot-mouth disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000965.htm

# Hand-foot-mouth disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hand-foot-mouth disease is a common viral infection that most often begins in
the throat.

## Causes

Hand-foot-mouth disease (HFMD) is most commonly caused by a virus called
coxsackievirus A16.

Children under age 10 are most often affected. Teens and adults can sometimes
get the infection. HFMD usually occurs in the summer and early fall.

The virus can spread from person-to-person through tiny, air droplets that are
released when the sick person sneezes, coughs, or blows their nose. You can
catch hand-foot-mouth disease if:

    * A person with the infection sneezes, coughs, or blows their nose near you.
    * You touch your nose, eyes, or mouth after you have touched something contaminated by the virus, such as a toy or doorknob.
    * You touch stools or fluid from the blisters of an infected person. 

The virus is most easily spread the first week a person has the disease.

## Symptoms

The time between contact with the virus and the start of symptoms is about 3
to 7 days. Symptoms include:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Rash with very small blisters on the hands, feet, and diaper area that may be tender or painful when pressed
    * Sore throat
    * Ulcers in the throat (including tonsils), mouth, and tongue 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Usually, a diagnosis
can be made from asking about the symptoms and the rash on the hands and feet.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for the infection other than symptom relief.

Antibiotics do not work because the infection is caused by a virus.
(Antibiotics treat infections caused by bacteria, not viruses.) To relieve
symptoms, the following home care can be used:

    * Over-the-counter medicines, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen can be used to treat fever. Aspirin should not be given for viral illnesses in children under age 18.
    * Salt water mouth rinses (1/2 teaspoon, or 6 grams, of salt to 1 glass of warm water) may be soothing.
    * Drink plenty of fluids. The best fluids are cold milk products. Do not drink juice or soda because their acid content causes burning pain in the ulcers. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Complete recovery occurs in 5 to 7 days.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications that may result from HFMD include:

    * Loss of body fluids (dehydration)
    * Seizures due to high fever (febrile seizures) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if there are signs of complications, such as pain in the
neck or arms and legs. Emergency symptoms include convulsions.

You should also call if:

    * Medicine does not lower a high fever
    * Signs of dehydration occur, such as dry skin and mucus membranes, weight loss, irritability, decreased alertness, decreased or dark urine 

## Prevention

Avoid contact with people with HFMD. Wash your hands well and often,
especially if you are in contact with people who are sick. Also teach children
to wash their hands well and often.

## Alternative Names

Coxsackievirus infection; HFM disease

## Images

    * ![Hand-foot-and-mouth disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17198t.jpg)Hand-foot-mouth disease
    * ![Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the soles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2157t.jpg)Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the soles
    * ![Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2311t.jpg)Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the hand
    * ![Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2312t.jpg)Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the foot
    * ![Hand, foot, and mouth disease - mouth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2940t.jpg)Hand, foot, and mouth disease - mouth
    * ![Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2941t.jpg)Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the foot

## References

Dinulos JGH. Exanthems and drug eruptions. In: Dinulos JGH, ed. _Habif's
Clinical Dermatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2021:chap 14.

Messacar K, Abzug MJ. Nonpolio enteroviruses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 277.

Romero JR. Coxsackieviruses, echoviruses, and numbered enteroviruses (EV-A71,
EVD-68, EVD-70). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 172.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

