Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007666.htm    
                                Description: Zika is a virus passed to humans by the bite of infected mosquitoes. Symptoms include fever, joint pain, rash, and red eyes (conjunctivitis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Zika virus disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007666.htm

# Zika virus disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Zika is a virus passed to humans by the bite of infected mosquitoes. Symptoms
include fever, joint pain, rash, and red eyes (conjunctivitis).

For the most up-to-date information, please visit the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention's (CDC) website at -- www.cdc.gov/zika.

## Causes

The Zika virus is named after the Zika forest in Uganda, where the virus was
first discovered in 1947.

HOW ZIKA CAN SPREAD

Mosquitoes spread the Zika virus from person to person.

    * Mosquitoes acquire the virus when they feed on infected people. They then spread the virus when they bite other people.
    * The mosquitoes that spread Zika are the same type that spread dengue fever and chikungunya virus. These mosquitoes usually feed during the day. 

Zika can be passed from a mother to her baby.

    * This can happen in the uterus or at the time of birth.Â 
    * Zika has not been found to spread through breastfeeding. 

The virus can be spread through sex.

    * People with Zika can spread the disease to their sex partners before symptoms begin, while they have symptoms, and after symptoms end.
    * The virus can also be passed during sex by people with Zika who never develop symptoms.
    * No one knows how long Zika remains in sperm and vaginal fluids, or how long it can be spread during sex.
    * The virus remains in semen longer than in other body fluids (blood, urine, vaginal fluids). 

Zika can also be spread through:

    * Blood transfusion
    * Exposure in a laboratory 

WHERE ZIKA IS FOUND

Before 2015, the virus was found mainly in Africa, Southeast Asia, and the
Pacific Islands. In May 2015, the virus was discovered for the first time in
Brazil.

It has now spread to many territories, states, and countries in:

    * Caribbean Islands
    * Central America
    * Mexico
    * South America
    * Pacific Islands
    * Africa 

The virus was confirmed in Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and United StatesÂ
Virgin Islands.

The disease has been found in travelers coming to the United States from
affected areas. Zika has also been discovered in one area in Florida, where
the virus is being spread by mosquitoes.

## Symptoms

Only about 1 in 5 people infected with Zika virus will have symptoms. This
means that you can have Zika and not know it.

Symptoms tend to occur 2 to 7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito.
They include:

    * Fever
    * Rash
    * Joint pain
    * Red eyes (conjunctivitis)
    * Muscle pain
    * Headache 

Symptoms are usually mild, and last for a few days to a week before going away
entirely.

## Exams and Tests

If you have symptoms of Zika and have recently traveled to an area where the
virus is present, your health care provider may do a blood test to check for
Zika. You also may be tested for other viruses spread by mosquitoes, such as
dengue and chikungunya.

## Treatment

There is no treatment for Zika. Like the flu virus, it has to run its course.
You can take steps to help relieve symptoms:

    * Drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated.
    * Get plenty of rest.
    * Take acetaminophen (Tylenol) to relieve pain and fever.
    * DO NOT take aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), or any other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory until your provider confirms that you do not have dengue. These medicines can cause bleeding in people with dengue. 

## Possible Complications

A Zika infection during pregnancy can cause a rare condition called
microcephaly. It occurs when the brain does not grow as it should in the womb
or after birth and causes babies to be born with a smaller-than-normal head.

Intense research is currently being done to understand how the virus may
spread from mothers to unborn babies and how the virus may affect babies.

Some people infected with Zika have later developed Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome.
It is unclear why this may occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of Zika. Let your provider know if
you have traveled recently in an area where the virus is spread. Your provider
may do a blood test to check for Zika and other mosquito-borne illnesses.

Call your provider if you or your partner has been to an area where Zika is
present, or live in an area with Zika and you are pregnant or thinking about
becoming pregnant.

## Prevention

There is no vaccine to protect against Zika. The best way to avoid getting the
virus is to avoid getting bit by mosquitoes.

The CDC recommends that all people traveling to areas where Zika is present
take steps to protect themselves from mosquito bites.

    * Cover up with long sleeves, long pants, socks, and a hat.
    * Use clothing coated with permethrin.
    * Use insect repellent with DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus, or para-menthane-diol. When using sunscreen, apply insect repellent after you apply sunscreen.
    * Sleep in a room with air conditioning or with windows with screens. Check screens for large holes.
    * Remove standing water from any outside containers such as buckets, flower pots, and birdbaths.
    * If sleeping outside, sleep under a mosquito net. 

When you return from travel to an area with Zika, you should take steps to
prevent mosquito bites for 3 weeks. This will help ensure you don't spread
Zika to mosquitoes in your area.

The CDC makes these recommendations for women who are pregnant:

    * Do not travel to any area where the Zika virus occurs.
    * If you must travel to one of these areas, talk to your provider first and strictly follow steps to prevent mosquito bites during your trip.
    * If you are pregnant and have traveled to an area where Zika is present, tell your provider.
    * If you travel to an area with Zika, you should be tested for Zika within 2 weeks of returning home, whether or not you have symptoms.
    * If you live in an area with Zika, you should talk with your provider all during your pregnancy. You will be tested for Zika during your pregnancy.
    * If you live in an area with Zika and have symptoms of Zika at any time while you are pregnant, you should be tested for Zika.
    * If your partner has recently traveled to an area where Zika is present, abstain from sex or use condoms correctly every time you have sex for the entire time of your pregnancy. This includes vaginal, anal, and oral sex (mouth-to-penis or fellatio). 

The CDC makes these recommendations for women who are trying to become
pregnant:

    * Do not travel to areas with Zika.
    * If you must travel to one of these areas, talk to your provider first and strictly follow steps to prevent mosquito bites during your trip.
    * If you live in an area with Zika, talk to your provider about your plans to become pregnant, the risk of Zika virus infection during your pregnancy, and your partner's possible exposure to Zika.
    * If you have symptoms of the Zika virus, you should wait at least 2 months after you were first infected or diagnosed with Zika before attempting to become pregnant.
    * If you have traveled to an area where Zika is present, but have no symptoms of Zika, you should wait at least 2 months after the last date of your exposure to attempt to become pregnant.
    * If your male partner has traveled to an area with risk of Zika and has no symptoms of Zika, you should wait at least 3 months after his return to attempt to become pregnant.
    * If your male partner has traveled to an area with risk of Zika and has developed symptoms of Zika, you should wait at least 3 months after the date his symptoms started or the date he was diagnosed to attempt to become pregnant.

The CDC makes these recommendations for women and their partners who are NOT
trying to become pregnant:

    * Men with Zika symptoms should not have sex or should use condoms for at least 3 months after symptoms began or the date of diagnosis.
    * Women with Zika symptoms should not have sex or should use condoms for at least 2 months after symptoms began or the date of diagnosis.
    * Men who do NOT have Zika symptoms should not have sex or should use condoms for at least 3 months after coming home from traveling to an area with Zika.
    * Women who do NOT have Zika symptoms should not have sex or should use condoms for at least 2 months after coming home from traveling to an area with Zika.  

    * Men and women who live in areas with Zika should not have sex or should use condoms for the entire time Zika is in the area. 

Zika can't be spread after the virus has passed from the body. However, it's
unclear how long Zika may remain in vaginal fluids or semen.

Areas where the Zika virus occurs are likely to change, so be sure to check
the CDC website for the most recent list of countries affected and for the
latest travel advisories.

All travelers to risk areas for Zika should avoid getting mosquito bites for 3
weeks after returning, to prevent the spread of Zika to mosquitoes that could
spread the virus to other people.

## Alternative Names

Zika virus infection; Zika virus; Zika

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Areas with risk of Zika.
www.cdc.gov/zika/geo/index.html. Updated September 15, 2017. Accessed April
24, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Pregnant women.
www.cdc.gov/zika/pregnancy/protect-yourself.html. Updated August 16, 2017.
Accessed April 24, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Protect yourself & others.
www.cdc.gov/zika/prevention/protect-yourself-and-others.html. Updated February
7, 2018. Accessed April 24, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Women and their partners
trying to become pregnant. www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika/women-and-their-
partners.html. Updated August 21, 2018. Accessed October 8, 2018. Â

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Zika virus for health care
providers: clinical evaluation & disease. www.cdc.gov/zika/hc-
providers/preparing-for-zika/clinicalevaluationdisease.html. Updated December
13, 2017. Accessed April 24, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Zika virus: symptoms,
testing, & treatment. www.cdc.gov/zika/symptoms/index.html. Updated June 21,
2016. Accessed April 24, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Zika virus: transmission
methods. www.cdc.gov/zika/prevention/transmission-methods.html. Updated
February 9, 2018. Accessed April 24, 2018.

Johansson MA, Mier-Y-Teran-Romero L, Reefhuis J, Gilboa SM, Hills SL. Zika and
the risk of microcephaly. _N Engl J Med_. 2016;375(1):1-4. PMID: 27222919
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27222919.

Oduyebo T, Igbinosa I, Petersen EE, et al. Update: interim guidance for health
care providers caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus exposure -
United States, July 2016. _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2016;65(29):739-744.
PMID: 27467820 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27467820.

Polen KD, Gilboa SM, Hills S, et al. Update: interim guidance for
preconception counseling and prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus
for men with possible zika virus exposure - United States, August 2018. _MMWR
Morb Mortal Wkly Rep._ 2018;67:868-871. PMID: 30091965
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30091965.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 10/08/2018.

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![Aedes aegypti
mosquito](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Zika,WestNile_thumb.jpg)Zika Virus
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

