Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001370.htm    
                                Description: Parainfluenza refers to a group of viruses that lead to upper and lower respiratory infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parainfluenza

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001370.htm

# Parainfluenza

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parainfluenza refers to a group of viruses that lead to upper and lower
respiratory infections.

## Causes

There are four types of parainfluenza virus. They can all cause lower orÂ
upper respiratory infectionsÂ in adults and children. The virus can cause
croup, bronchiolitis, bronchitis and certain types of pneumonia.

The exact number of parainfluenza cases is unknown. The number is suspected to
be very high. Infections are most common in fall and winter. Parainfluenza
infections are most severe in infants and become less severe with age. By
school age, most children have been exposed to the parainfluenza virus. Most
adults have antibodies against parainfluenza, although they can get repeat
infections.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary depending on the type of infection. Cold-like symptoms
consisting of a runny nose and mild cough are common. Life-threatening
respiratory symptoms can be seen in young infants with bronchiolitis and those
with weak immune system.

In general, symptoms may include:

    * Sore throat
    * Fever
    * Runny or stuffy nose
    * Chest pain, shortness of breath, wheezing
    * Cough or croup

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show sinus tenderness, swollen glands, and a red throat.
The health care provider will listen to the lungs and chest with a
stethoscope. Abnormal sounds, such as crackling or wheezing, may be heard.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Blood cultures (to rule out other causes of pneumonia)
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Swab of nose for rapid viral test

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for the viral infection. Certain treatments are
available for the symptoms of croup and bronchiolitis to make breathing
easier.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most infections in adults and older children are mild and recovery takes place
without treatment, unless the person is very old or has an abnormal immune
system. Medical intervention may be necessary if breathing difficulties
develop.

## Possible Complications

Secondary bacterial infections are the most common complication. Airway
obstruction in croup and bronchiolitis can be severe andÂ even life
threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You or your child develops croup, wheezing, or any other type of breathing difficulty.
    * A child under 18 months develops any type of upper respiratory symptom.

## Prevention

There are no vaccines available for parainfluenza. A few preventive measures
that may help include:

    * Avoid crowds to limit exposure during peak outbreaks.
    * Wash your hands often.
    * Limit exposure to day care centers and nurseries, if possible.

## Alternative Names

Human parainfluenza virus; HPIVs

## References

Ison MG. Parainfluenza viruses. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 158.

Weinberg GA, Edwards KM. Parainfluenza viral disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 363.

Welliver Sr RC. Parainfluenza viruses. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 179.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A toddler sleeping in a parent's
arms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sleeping_thumb.jpg)Croup _Read more_

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

