Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007717.htm    
                                Description: Eosinophilic esophagitis involves a buildup of white blood cells in the lining of your esophagus. The esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. The buildup of white blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eosinophilic esophagitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007717.htm

# Eosinophilic esophagitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eosinophilic esophagitis involves a buildup of white blood cells in the lining
of your esophagus. The esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth
to your stomach. The buildup of white blood cells (called eosinophils) is due
to a reaction to foods, allergens, or acid reflux.

## Causes

The exact cause of eosinophilic esophagitis is not known. It is believed that
an immune reaction to certain foods leads to a buildup of eosinophils. As a
result, the lining of the esophagus becomes swollen and inflamed.

Most people with this disorder have a family or personal history of allergies
or asthma. Triggers such as mold, pollen, and dust mites may also play a role.

## Symptoms

Eosinophilic esophagitis can affect both children and adults.

Symptoms in children include:

    * Problems feeding or eating
    * Abdominal pain
    * Vomiting
    * Problems swallowing
    * Food getting stuck in the esophagus
    * Poor weight gain or weight loss, poor growth, and malnutrition

Symptoms in adults include:

    * Food getting stuck when swallowing
    * Chest pain
    * Heartburn
    * Upper abdominal pain
    * Backflow of undigested food (regurgitation)
    * Reflux that does not get better with medicine

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take a detailed history and perform a physical
exam. This is done to check for food allergies and to rule out other
conditions, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests
    * Allergy skin test
    * Upper endoscopy
    * Biopsy of the lining of the esophagus

## Treatment

There is no cure and no specific treatment for eosinophilic esophagitis.
Treatment involves managing your diet and taking medicines.

If you test positive for food allergies, you may be told to avoid those foods.
Or you may avoid all foods that are known to trigger this problem. Common
foods to avoid include seafood, eggs, nuts, soy, wheat, and dairy. Allergy
testing may discover specific foods to avoid.

Proton pump inhibitors can help control symptoms, but they don't help the
problem causing symptoms.

Your provider may prescribe topical steroids taken orally. You also may take
oral steroids for a short time. Topical steroids don't have the same side
effects as oral steroids.

If you develop narrowing or strictures, a procedure to open up or dilate the
area may be needed.

You and your provider will work together to find a treatment plan that works
best for you.

## Support Groups

Support groups such as American Partnership for Eosinophilic Disorders can
help you understand more about the eosinophilic esophagitis. You can also
learn ways to manage your condition and cope with the disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Eosinophilic esophagitis is long-term (chronic) disease that comes and goes
over a person's lifetime.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications may include:

    * Narrowing of the esophagus (a stricture)
    * Food getting stuck in the esophagus (common in children)
    * Severe swelling and irritation of the esophagus

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have symptoms of eosinophilic esophagitis.

## Images

    * ![Esophagus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8871t.jpg)Esophagus
    * ![Allergy skin prick or scratch test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19344t.jpg)Allergy skin prick or scratch test
    * ![Intradermal allergy test reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19345t.jpg)Intradermal allergy test reactions

## References

Chen JW, Kao JY. Eosinophilic esophagitis: update on management and
controversies. _BMJ_. 2017;359:j4482. PMID: 29133286
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29133286.

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Groetch M, Venter C, Skypala I, et al; Eosinophilic Gastrointestinal Disorders
Committee of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. Dietary
therapy and nutrition management of eosinophilic esophagitis: a work group
report of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology. _J Allergy
Clin Immunol Pract_. 2017;5(2):312-324.e29. PMID: 28283156
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28283156.

Khan S, Orenstein SR. Eosinophilic esophagitis and non-gastroesophageal reflux
disease esophagitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 324.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Subodh K. Lal, MD, gastroenterologist with Gastrointestinal
Specialists of Georgia, Smyrna, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EosinophilicEsophagitis_thumb.jpg)Eosinophilic
Esophagitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

