Link: https://medlineplus.gov/seizures.html    
                                Description: Seizures are caused by sudden, abnormal electrical activity in the brain. They can be mild or severe. Learn about the types, causes, and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Seizures

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/seizures.html

#  Seizures

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Seizures are symptoms of a brain problem. They happen because of sudden,
abnormal electrical activity in the brain. When people think of seizures, they
often think of convulsions in which a person's body shakes rapidly and
uncontrollably. Not all seizures cause convulsions. There are many types of
seizures and some have mild symptoms. Seizures fall into two main groups.
Focal seizures, also called partial seizures, happen in just one part of the
brain. Generalized seizures are a result of abnormal activity on both sides of
the brain.

Most seizures last from 30 seconds to 2 minutes and do not cause lasting harm.
However, it is a medical emergency if seizures last longer than 5 minutes or
if a person has many seizures and does not wake up between them. Seizures can
have many causes, including medicines, high fevers, head injuries and certain
diseases. People who have recurring seizures due to a brain disorder have
epilepsy.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * The Epilepsies and Seizures: Hope Through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Computed Tomography (CT) -- Head ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * EEG (Electroencephalogram) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Convulsions - first aid - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Seizure First Aid (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Vagus Nerve Stimulation (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Absence Seizure (Petit Mal Seizure) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Frontal Lobe Seizures (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Grand Mal Seizure (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Temporal Lobe Seizure (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Todd's Paralysis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: 15q13.3 microdeletion ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: ataxia neuropathy spectrum ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: benign familial neonatal seizures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: childhood absence epilepsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: familial focal epilepsy with variable foci ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: malignant migrating partial seizures of infancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: molybdenum cofactor deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: myoclonic epilepsy myopathy sensory ataxia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Seizures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Neuro-arrhythmology: a challenging field of action and research: a review from...
    * Article: A view from the acute hospital: managing patients with alcohol problems.
    * Article: Efficacy and tolerability of adjunctive lacosamide in pediatric patients with focal...
    * Seizures -- see more articles
    * Epileptic seizures -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Doctor (American Epilepsy Society)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Febrile Seizures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Infantile Spasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Ohtahara Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Seizures (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Absence seizure (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * EEG (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Febrile seizures (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Generalized tonic-clonic seizure (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Partial (focal) seizure (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Seizures (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Seizures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Seizure.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Absence seizure
    * Convulsions - first aid - slideshow
    * CPK isoenzymes test
    * EEG
    * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge
    * Febrile seizures
    * Febrile seizures - what to ask your doctor
    * Generalized tonic-clonic seizure
    * Partial (focal) seizure
    * Seizures

## Related Health Topics

    * Epilepsy

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Seizures is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Seizures_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 23 October 2018 Topic last reviewed: 29 June 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

