Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000874.htm    
                                Description: Hypersensitivity vasculitis is an extreme reaction to a drug, infection, or foreign substance. It leads to inflammation and damage to blood vessels, mainly in the skin.Â The term is not used much currently    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypersensitivity vasculitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000874.htm

# Hypersensitivity vasculitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypersensitivity vasculitis is an extreme reaction to a drug, infection, or
foreign substance. It leads to inflammation and damage to blood vessels,
mainly in the skin.Â The term is not used much currently because more specific
names are considered more precise.

## Causes

Hypersensitivity vasculitis, or cutaneous small vessel vasculitis, is caused
by:

    * An allergic reaction to a drug or other foreign substance
    * A reaction to an infection

It usually affects people older than age 16.

Often, the cause of the problem cannot be found even with a careful study of
medical history.

Hypersensitivity vasculitis may look like systemic,Â necrotizing vasculitis,
which can affect blood vessels throughout the body and not just in the skin.
In children, it can look like Henoch-Schonlein purpura.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * New rash with tender, purple or brownish-red spotsÂ over large areas
    * Skin sores mostly located on the legs, buttocks, or trunk
    * Blisters on the skin
    * Hives (urticaria), may last longer than 24 hours
    * Open sores with dead tissue (necrotic ulcers)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will base the diagnosis on symptoms. The provider
will review any medicines or drugs you have taken and recent infections. You
will be asked about cough, fever, or chest pain.

A complete physical exam will be done.

Blood and urine tests may be done to look for systemic disorders such systemic
lupus erythematosus, dermatomyositis, or hepatitis C. The blood tests may
include:

    * Complete blood count with differential
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate
    * Chemistry panel with liver enzymes and creatinine
    * Antinuclear antibody (ANA)
    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA)
    * Complement levels
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Hepatitis B and C tests
    * HIV test
    * Urinalysis

Skin biopsy shows inflammation of the small blood vessels.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce inflammation.

Your provider may prescribe aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs), or corticosteroids to reduce inflammation of the blood vessels. (DO
NOT give aspirin to children except as advised by your provider).

Your provider will tell you to stop taking medicines that could be causing
this condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hypersensitivity vasculitis most often goes away over time. The condition may
come back in some people.

People with ongoing vasculitis should be checked for systemic vasculitis.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Lasting damage to the blood vessels or skin with scarring
    * Inflamed blood vessels affecting the internal organs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of hypersensitivity vasculitis.

## Prevention

DO NOT take medicines that have caused an allergic reaction in the past.

## Alternative Names

Cutaneous small vessel vasculitis;Â Allergic vasculitis; Leukocytoclastic
vasculitis

## Images

    * ![Vasculitis on the palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2543t.jpg)Vasculitis on the palm
    * ![Vasculitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2544t.jpg)Vasculitis
    * ![Vasculitis - urticarial on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2545t.jpg)Vasculitis - urticarial on the hand

## References

Habif TP. Hypersensitivity syndromes and vasculitis. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Jennette JC, Falk RJ, Bacon PA, et al. 2012 revised International Chapel Hill
consensus conference nomenclature of vasculitides. _Arthritis Rheum_.
2013;65(1):1-11. PMID: 23045170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23045170.

Patterson JW. The vasculopathic reaction pattern. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 8.

Stone JH. The systemic vasculitides. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 270.

SunderkÃ¶tter CH, Zelger B, Chen KR, et al. Nomenclature of cutaneous
vasculitis: dermatologic addendum to the 2012 Revised International Chapel
Hill Consensus Conference Nomenclature of Vasculitides. _Arthritis Rheumatol_.
2018;70(2):171-184. PMID: 29136340 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29136340.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

