Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000405.htm    
                                Description: An allergy shot is a medicine that is injected into your body to treat allergy symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergy shots

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000405.htm

# Allergy shots

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An allergy shot is a medicine that is injected into your body to treat allergy
symptoms.

## What are Allergy Shots?

An allergy shot contains a small amount of an allergen. This is a substance
that causes an allergic reaction. Examples of allergens include:

    * Mold spores
    * Dust mites
    * Animal dander
    * Pollen
    * Insect venom 

A health care provider gives you the shots for 3 to 5 years. This series of
allergy shots may help reduce your allergy symptoms.

Work with your provider to identify which allergens are causing your symptoms.
This is often done through allergy skin testing or blood tests. Only the
allergens you are allergic to are in your allergy shots.

Allergy shots are only one part of an allergy treatment plan. You may also
take allergy medicines while having allergy shots. Your provider may recommend
that you reduce your exposure to allergens, as well.

## How do Allergy Shots Work?

Allergy symptoms occur when your immune system tries to attack an allergen in
your body. When this happens, your body creates mucus. This can cause
bothersome symptoms in the nose, eyes, and lungs.

Treatment with allergy shots is also called immunotherapy. When a small amount
of an allergen is injected into your body, your immune system makes a
substance called an antibody that blocks the allergen from causing symptoms.

After several months of shots, some or all of your symptoms may be relieved.
Relief can last several years. For some people, allergy shots can prevent new
allergies and reduce asthma symptoms.

## Who can Benefit From Allergy Shots?

You may benefit from allergy shots if you have:

    * Asthma that allergies make worse
    * Allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis
    * Insect bite sensitivity
    * Eczema, a skin condition that a dust mite allergy can make worse 

Allergy shots are effective for common allergens such as:

    * Weed and tree pollen
    * Grass
    * Mold or fungus
    * Animal dander
    * Dust mites
    * Insect stings 

Adults (including the older people) as well as children 5 years and older can
receive allergy shots.

Your provider is not likely to recommend allergy shots for you if you:

    * Have severe asthma.
    * Have a heart condition.
    * Take certain medicines, such as ACE inhibitors or beta-blockers.
    * Are pregnant. Pregnant women should not begin allergy shots. But, they may be able to continue allergy shot treatment that was started before they became pregnant. 

Food allergies are not treated with allergy shots.

## Getting Your Allergy Shots

You will get your allergy shots at your provider's office. They are usually
given in the upper arm. The typical schedule is:

    * For the first 3 to 6 months, you receive shots about 1 to 3 times a week.
    * For the next 3 to 5 years, you receive the shots less often, about every 4 to 6 weeks. 

Keep in mind that many visits are needed to get the full effects of this
treatment. Your provider will assess your symptoms now and then to help decide
when you can stop receiving the shots.

## Side Effects

An allergy shot may cause a reaction on the skin, such as redness, swelling,
and itching. Some people have mild nasal stuffiness or a runny nose.

Though rare, an allergy shot can also cause a severe life-threatening allergic
reaction called anaphylaxis. Because of this, you may need to stay in your
provider's office for 30 minutes after your shot to check for this reaction.

You may also need to take an antihistamine or another medicine before your
allergy shot appointments. This may prevent reactions to the shot at the
injection site, but it does not prevent anaphylaxis.

Reactions to allergy shots can be treated in your provider's office right
away.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You continue to have symptoms after several months of allergy shots
    * You have questions or concerns about the allergy shots or your symptoms
    * You have trouble keeping appointments for your allergy shots 

## Alternative Names

Allergy injections; Allergen immunotherapy

## References

Cox L, Nelson H, Lockey R, et al; Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters,
representing the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI); the
American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (ACAAI); and the Joint
Council of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Allergen immunotherapy: a practice
parameter third update. _J Allergy Clin Immunol_. 2011;127(1 Suppl):S1-S55.
PMID: 21122901 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21122901.

Golden DBK. Insect allergy. In: Adkinson NF Jr., Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al,
eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 78.

Seidman MD, Gurgel RK, Lin SY, et al. Clinical practice guideline: Allergic
rhinitis. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_. 2015;152(1 Suppl):S1-S43. PMID:
25644617 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25644617.

## Review Date 11/19/2017

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

