Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003060.htm    
                                Description: A sneeze is a sudden, forceful, uncontrolled burst of air through the nose and mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sneezing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003060.htm

# Sneezing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sneeze is a sudden, forceful, uncontrolled burst of air through the nose and
mouth.

## Causes

Sneezing is caused by irritation to the mucous membranes of the nose or
throat. It can be very bothersome, but is rarely a sign of a serious problem.

Sneezing can be due to:

    * Allergy to pollen (hay fever), mold, dander, dust
    * Breathing in corticosteroids (from certain nose sprays)
    * Common cold or the flu
    * Drug withdrawal 
    * Triggers such as dust, air pollution, dry air, spicy foods, strong emotions, certain medicines, and powders 

## Home Care

Avoiding exposure to the allergen is the best way to control sneezing caused
by allergies. An allergen is something that causes an allergic reaction.

Tips to reduce your exposure:

    * Change furnace filters
    * Remove pets from the home to get rid of animal dander
    * Use air filters to reduce pollen in the air
    * Wash linens in hot water (at least 130Â°F or 54Â°C) to kill dust mites 

In some cases, you may need to move out of a home with a mold spore problem.

Sneezing that is not due to an allergy will disappear when the illness that is
causing it is cured or treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health careÂ provider if sneezing is affecting your life and home
remedies do not work.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and look atÂ your nose and throat.
You'll be asked about your medical history and symptoms. Questions may include
when the sneezing started, whether you have other symptoms, or if you have
allergies.

In some cases, allergy testing may be needed to find the cause.

Your provider will suggest treatments and lifestyle changes for hay fever
symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Sternutation; Allergy - sneezing; Hay fever - sneezing; Flu - sneezing; Cold -
sneezing; Dust - sneezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Eccles R. The nose and control of nasal airflow. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner
BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy Principles and Practice_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 40.

Turner RB. The common cold. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 58.

## Review Date 4/17/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Common Cold](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonCold_thumb.jpg)Common Cold
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

