Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000549.htm    
                                Description: An allergy is an immune response, or reaction, to substances (allergens) that are usually not harmful. In someone with allergies, the immune response is oversensitive. When it recognizes an allergen, the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antihistamines for allergies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000549.htm

# Antihistamines for allergies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An allergy is an immune response, or reaction, to substances (allergens) that
are usually not harmful. In someone with allergies, the immune response is
oversensitive. When it recognizes an allergen, the immune system launches a
response. Chemicals such as histamines are released. These chemicals cause
allergy symptoms.

One type of medicine that helps relieve allergy symptoms is an antihistamine.

## What are Antihistamines?

Antihistamines are drugs that treat allergy symptoms by blocking the effects
of histamines. Antihistamines come as pills, chewable tablets, capsules, and
liquids.

## How Antihistamines Help

Antihistamines treat these allergy symptoms:

    * Congestion, runny nose, sneezing, or itching
    * Swelling of the nasal passages
    * Hives and other skin rashes
    * Itchy, runny eyes 

Treating symptoms can help you or your child to feel better during the day and
sleep better at night.

## How to Take Antihistamines

Depending on your symptoms, you can take antihistamines:

    * Every day, to help keep daily symptoms under control
    * Only when you have symptoms
    * Before being exposed to things that often cause your allergy symptoms, such as a pet or certain plants 

For many people with allergies, symptoms are the worst around 4 a.m. to 6 a.m.
Taking an antihistamine at bedtime may help you or your child feel better in
the morning during allergy season.

## What Antihistamine is Right for you?

You can buy many different brands and forms of antihistamines without a
prescription.

    * Some work for only 4 to 6 hours, while others last for 12 to 24 hours.
    * Some are combined with a decongestant, a drug that dries up your nasal passages. 

Ask your health care provider what type of antihistamine and what exact dosage
is right for you or your child. Make sure you understand how much to use and
how many times a day to use it. Be sure to read the label carefully. Or ask
your pharmacist if you have questions.

    * Some antihistamines cause less sleepiness than others. These include cetirizine (Zyrtec), desloratadine (Clarinex), fexofenadine (Allegra), and loratadine (Claritin).
    * DO NOT drink alcohol when you are taking antihistamines. 

Also, remember:

    * Store antihistamines at room temperature, away from heat, direct light, and moisture.
    * Do not freeze antihistamines.
    * Keep all medicines where children cannot reach them. 

## Side Effects of Antihistamines

Ask your provider if antihistamines are safe for you or your child, what side
effects to watch for, and how antihistamines may affect other medicines you or
your child take.

    * Antihistamines are thought to be safe for adults.
    * Most antihistamines are also safe for children over 2 years old.
    * If you are breastfeeding or pregnant, ask your provider if antihistamines are safe for you.
    * Adults who take antihistamines should know how the medicine affects them before driving or using machinery.
    * If your child is taking antihistamines, make sure the medicine is not affecting your child's ability to learn. 

There may be special precautions for using antihistamines if you have:

    * Increased pressure in the eye (glaucoma)
    * Enlarged prostate or problems passing urine
    * Epilepsy
    * Overactive thyroid
    * Heart disease or high blood pressure
    * Diabetes 

Side effects of antihistamines may include:

    * Dizziness
    * Dry mouth
    * Drowsiness
    * Feeling nervous, excited, or irritable
    * Changes in vision, such as blurry vision
    * Decreased appetite 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your nose is irritated, you are having nosebleeds, or you have any other new nasal symptoms
    * Your allergy symptoms are not getting better
    * You are having trouble taking your antihistamines 

## Alternative Names

Allergic rhinitis - antihistamine; Hives - antihistamine; Allergic
conjunctivitis - antihistamine; Urticaria - antihistamine; Dermatitis -
antihistamine; Eczema - antihistamine

## References

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

Seidman MD, Gurgel RK, Lin SY, et al. Clinical practice guideline: allergic
rhinitis. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_. 2015;152(1 Suppl):S1-S43. PMID:
25644617 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25644617.

Wallace DV, Dykewicz MS, Oppenheimer J, Portnoy JM, Lang DM. Pharmacologic
treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis: synopsis of guidance from the 2017
joint task force on practice parameters. _Ann Intern Med_.
2017;167(12):876-881. PMID: 29181536 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29181536.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

