Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000005.htm    
                                Description: Allergic reactions are sensitivities to substances called allergens that come into contact with the skin, nose, eyes, respiratory tract, and gastrointestinal tract. They can beÂ breathed into the lungs,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergic reactions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000005.htm

# Allergic reactions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Allergic reactions are sensitivities to substances called allergens that come
into contact with the skin, nose, eyes, respiratory tract, and
gastrointestinal tract. They can beÂ breathed into the lungs, swallowed, or
injected.

## Considerations

Allergic reactions are common. The immune response that causes an allergic
reaction is similar to the response that causes hay fever. Most reactions
happen soon after contact with an allergen.

Many allergic reactions are mild, while others can be severe and life
threatening. They can be confined to a small area of the body, or they may
affect the entire body. The most severe form is called anaphylaxis or
anaphylactic shock. Allergic reactions occur more often in people who have a
family history of allergies.

Substances that don't bother most people (such as venom from bee stings and
certain foods, medicines, and pollens) can trigger allergic reactions in
certain people.

First-time exposure may produce only a mild reaction. Repeated exposures may
lead to more serious reactions. Once a person has had an exposure or an
allergic reaction (is sensitized), even a very limited exposure to a very
small amount of allergen can trigger a severe reaction.

Most severe allergic reactions occur within seconds or minutes after exposure
to the allergen. Some reactions can occur after several hours, particularly if
the allergen causes a reaction after it has been eaten. In very rare cases,
reactions develop after 24 hours.

Anaphylaxis is a sudden and severe allergic reaction that occurs within
minutes of exposure. Immediate medical attention is needed for this condition.
Without treatment, anaphylaxis can get worse very quickly and lead to death
within 15 minutes.

## Causes

Common allergens include:

    * Animal dander
    * Bee stings or stings from other insects
    * Foods, especially nuts, fish, and shellfish
    * Insect bites
    * Medicines
    * Plants
    * Pollens

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of a mild allergic reaction include:

    * Hives (especially over the neck and face) 
    * Itching
    * Nasal congestion
    * Rashes
    * Watery, red eyes

Symptoms of a moderate or severe reaction include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Abnormal (high-pitched) breathing sounds
    * Anxiety
    * Chest discomfort or tightness
    * Cough
    * Diarrhea
    * Difficulty breathing, wheezing
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Flushing or redness of the face
    * NauseaÂ or vomiting
    * Palpitations
    * Swelling of the face, eyes, or tongue
    * Unconsciousness

## First Aid

For a mild to moderate reaction:

Calm and reassure the person having the reaction. Anxiety can make symptoms
worse.

Try to identify the allergen and have the person avoid further contact with
it.

    1. If the person develops an itchy rash, apply cool compresses and an over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream. 
    2. Watch the person for signs of increasing distress. 
    3. Get medical help. For a mild reaction, a health care provider may recommend over-the-counter medicines, such as antihistamines. 

For a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis):

Check the person's airway, breathing, and circulation (the ABC's of Basic Life
Support). A warning sign of dangerous throat swelling is a very hoarse or
whispered voice, or coarse sounds when the person is breathing in air. If
necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.

    1. Call 911. 
    2. Calm and reassure the person. 
    3. If the allergic reaction is from a bee sting, scrape the stinger off the skin with something firm (such as a fingernail or plastic credit card). Do not use tweezers -- squeezing the stinger will release more venom. 
    4. If the person has emergency allergy medicine on hand, help the person take or inject the medicine. Avoid oral medicine if the person is having difficulty breathing. 
    5. Take steps to prevent shock. Have the person lie flat, raise the person's feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters), and cover them with a coat or blanket. Do not place the person in this position if a head, neck, back, or leg injury is suspected or if it causes discomfort. 

## DO NOT

If a person is having an allergic reaction:

    * Do not assume that any allergy shots the person has already received will provide complete protection.
    * Do not place a pillow under the person's head if he or she is having trouble breathing. This can block the airways.
    * Do not give the person anything by mouth if the person is having trouble breathing.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for medical assistance (911) right away if:

    * The person is having a severe allergic reaction. Do not wait to see if the reaction is getting worse.
    * The person has a history of severe allergic reactions (check for a medical ID tag). 

## Prevention

To prevent allergic reactions:

    * Avoid triggers such as foods and medicines that have caused an allergic reaction in the past. Ask detailed questions about ingredients when you are eating away from home. Carefully check ingredient labels.
    * If you have a child who is allergic to certain foods, introduce one new food at a time in small amounts so you can recognize an allergic reaction.
    * People who have had serious allergic reactions should wear a medical ID tag and carry emergency medicines, such as a chewable form of chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton), and injectable epinephrine or a bee sting kit, according to your provider's instructions.
    * Do not use your injectable epinephrine on anyone else. They may have a condition, such as a heart problem, that could be made worse by this drug. 

## Alternative Names

Anaphylaxis; Anaphylaxis - first aid

## Images

    * ![Allergic reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19150t.jpg)Allergic reactions
    * ![Dermatographism - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2017t.jpg)Dermatographism - close-up
    * ![Dermatographism on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2018t.jpg)Dermatographism on the arm
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2480t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the arm
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2481t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the chest
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2482t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) - close-up
    * ![Hives \(urticaria\) on the trunk](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2483t.jpg)Hives (urticaria) on the trunk
    * ![Dermatographism on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2780t.jpg)Dermatographism on the back
    * ![Dermatographism - arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3065t.jpg)Dermatographism - arm
    * ![Allergic reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8700t.jpg)Allergic reactions

## References

Custovic A, Tovey E. Allergen control for prevention and management of
allergic diseases. In: Adkinson NF Jr., Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds.
_Middleton's Allergy Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 86.

Lieberman P, Nicklas RA, Randolph C, et al. Anaphylaxis -- a practice
parameter update 2015. _Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol_. 2015;115(5):341-384.
PMID: 26505932 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26505932.

Wasserman SI. Approach to the patient with allergic or immunologic disease.
In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 249.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

