Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001031.htm    
                                Description: The conjunctiva is a clear layer of tissue lining the eyelids and covering the white of the eye. Allergic conjunctivitis occurs when the conjunctiva becomes swollen or inflamed due to a reaction to pollen,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergic conjunctivitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001031.htm

# Allergic conjunctivitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The conjunctiva is a clear layer of tissue lining the eyelids and covering the
white of the eye. Allergic conjunctivitis occurs when the conjunctiva becomes
swollen or inflamed due to a reaction to pollen, dust mites, pet dander, mold,
or other allergy-causing substances.

## Causes

When your eyes are exposed to allergy-causing substances, a substance called
histamine is released by your body. The blood vessels in the conjunctiva
become swollen. The eyes can become red, itchy, and teary very quickly.

The pollens that cause symptoms vary from person to person and from area to
area. Tiny, hard-to-see pollens that may cause allergic symptoms include
grasses, ragweed and trees. These same pollens may also cause hay fever.

Your symptoms may be worse when there is more pollen in the air. Higher levels
of pollen are more likely on hot, dry, windy days. On cool, damp, rainy days
most pollen is washed to the ground.

Mold, animal dander, or dust mites may cause this problem also.

Allergies tend to run in families. It is hard to know exactly how many people
have allergies. Many conditions are often lumped under the term "allergy" even
when they might not truly be an allergy.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may be seasonal and can include:

    * Intense itching or burning eyes
    * Puffy eyelids, most often in the morning
    * Red eyes
    * Stringy eye discharge
    * Tearing (watery eyes)
    * Widened blood vessels in the clear tissue covering the white of the eye 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may look for the following:

    * Certain white blood cells, called eosinophils
    * Small, raised bumps on the inside of the eyelids (papillary conjunctivitis)
    * Positive skin test for suspected allergens on allergy tests

Allergy testing may reveal the pollen or other substances that trigger your
symptoms.

    * Skin testing is the most common method of allergy testing.
    * Skin testing is more likely to be done if symptoms do not respond to treatment.

## Treatment

The best treatment is to avoid what causes your allergy symptoms as much as
possible. Common triggers to avoid include dust, mold and pollen.

Some things you can do to ease symptoms are:

    * Use lubricating eye drops.
    * Apply cool compresses to the eyes.
    * DO NOT smoke and avoid secondhand smoke.
    * Take over-the-counter oral antihistamines or antihistamine or decongestant eye drops. These medicines can offer more relief, but they can sometimes make your eyes dry. (Do not use the eye drops if you have contact lenses in place. Also, do not use the eye drops for more than 5 days, as rebound congestion can occur.).Â 

If home-care does not help, you may need to see a provider for treatments such
asÂ eye drops that contain antihistamines or eye drops that reduce swelling.

Mild eye steroid drops can be prescribed for more severe reactions. You may
also use eye drops that prevent a type of white blood cell called mast cells
from causing swelling. These drops are given along with antihistamines. These
medicines work best if you take them before you come in contact with the
allergen.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms often go away with treatment. However, they can persist if you
continue to be exposed to the allergen.

Long-term swelling of the outer lining of the eyes may occur in those with
chronic allergies or asthma. It is called vernal conjunctivitis. It is most
common in young males, and most often occurs during the spring and summer.

## Possible Complications

There are no serious complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis that do not respond to self-care steps and over-the-counter treatment.
    * Your vision is affected.
    * You develop eye pain that is severe or becoming worse.
    * Your eyelids or the skin around your eyes becomes swollen or red.
    * You have a headache in addition to your other symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Conjunctivitis - allergic seasonal/perennial; Atopic keratoconjunctivitis;
Pink eye - allergic

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Allergy symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19316t.jpg)Allergy symptoms
    * ![Conjunctivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19322t.jpg)Conjunctivitis

## References

Dorsch JN. Red eye. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018;468-472.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Allergic conjunctivitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.7.

## Review Date 8/29/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Pinkeye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PinkEye2_thumb.jpg)Pinkeye _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

