Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000532.htm    
                                Description: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is cancer of a type of white blood cells called lymphocytes. These cells are found in the bone marrow and other parts of the body. Bone marrow is the soft tissue in the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000532.htm

# Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is cancer of a type of white blood cells
called lymphocytes. These cells are found in the bone marrow and other parts
of the body. Bone marrow is the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps
form all blood cells.

CLL causes a slow increase in a certain type of white blood cells called B
lymphocytes, or B cells. Cancer cells spread through the blood and bone
marrow. CLL can also affect the lymph nodes or other organs such as the liver
and spleen. CLL eventually can cause the bone marrow to lose its function.

## Causes

The cause of CLL is unknown. There is no link to radiation. It is unclear if
certain chemicals can cause CLL. Exposure to Agent Orange during the Vietnam
War has been linked to a slight increased risk of developing CLL.

CLL usually affects older adults, especially those over age 60. People under
age 45 rarely develop CLL. CLL is more common in whites than in other ethnic
groups. It is more common in men than in women. Some people with CLL have
family members with the disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually develop slowly. CLL often does not cause symptoms at first.
It may be found by blood tests done in people for other reasons.

Symptoms of CLL may include:

    * Enlarged lymph nodes, liver, or spleen
    * Excessive sweating, night sweats
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Infections that keep coming back (recur), despite treatment
    * Loss of appetite or becoming full too quickly (early satiety)
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests to diagnose CLL may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) with blood cell differential.Â 
    * Flow cytometry test of the white blood cells.
    * Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) is used to look at and count genes or chromosomes. This test may help diagnose CLL or guide treatment.
    * Testing for other gene changes may help predict how well the cancer will respond to treatment.

People with CLL usually have a high white blood cell count.

Tests that look at changes in the DNA inside the cancer cells may also be
done. Results from these tests and from staging tests help your provider
determine your treatment.

## Treatment

If you have early stage CLL, your provider will just monitor you closely.
Treatment is not generally given for early-stage CLL, unless you have:

    * Infections that keep coming back
    * Leukemia that is rapidly getting worse
    * Low red blood cell or platelet counts
    * Fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, or night sweats
    * Swollen lymph nodes

Chemotherapy, including targeted medicines, are used to treat CLL. Your
provider will determine which type of medicines are right for you.  

Blood transfusions or platelet transfusions may be required if blood counts
are low.

Bone marrow or stem cell transplantation may be used in younger people with
advanced or high-risk CLL. A transplant is the only therapy that offers a
potential cure for CLL, but it also has risks. Your provider will discuss the
risks and benefits with you.

You and your provider may need to manage other concerns during your leukemia
treatment, including:Â

    * Managing your pets during chemotherapy
    * Bleeding problems
    * Dry mouth
    * Eating enough calories
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your provider can discuss with you the outlook of your CLL based on its stage
and how well it responds to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications of CLL and its treatmentÂ may include:

    * Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, a condition in which red blood cells are destroyed by the immune system
    * Bleeding from low platelet count
    * Hypogammaglobulinemia, a condition in which there is a lower level of antibodies than normal, which can increase the risk of infection.
    * Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), a bleeding disorderÂ 
    * Infections that keep coming back (recur)
    * Fatigue that can range from mild to severe
    * Other cancers, including a much more aggressive lymphoma (Richter transformation)
    * Side effects of chemotherapy 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a provider if you develop enlarged lymph nodes or unexplained fatigue,
bruising, excessive sweating, or weight loss.

## Alternative Names

CLL; Leukemia - chronic lymphocytic (CLL); Blood cancer - chronic lymphocytic
leukemia; Bone marrow cancer - chronic lymphocytic leukemia; Lymphoma -
chronic lymphocytic leukemia

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Auer rods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1441t.jpg)Auer rods
    * ![Chronic lymphocytic leukemia - microscopic view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1443t.jpg)Chronic lymphocytic leukemia - microscopic view
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Awan FT, Byrd JC. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage
JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology._ 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 99.

National Cancer Institute website. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia treatment
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/cll-
treatment-pdq. Updated January 22, 2020. Accessed February 27, 2020.Â

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic
lymphoma. Version 4.2020.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/cll.pdf. Updated December 20,
2019. Accessed Febraury 27, 2020.

## Review Date 2/6/2020

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Chronic
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

