Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000037.htm    
                                Description: Sometimes exercise triggers asthma symptoms. This is called exercise-induced asthma (EIA).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercising and asthma at school

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000037.htm

# Exercising and asthma at school

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sometimes exercise triggers asthma symptoms. This is called exercise-induced
asthma (EIA).

The symptoms of EIA are coughing, wheezing, a feeling of tightness in your
chest, or shortness of breath. Most times, these symptoms start soon after you
stop exercising. Some people may have symptoms after they start exercising.

## Be Careful Where and When the Student Exercises

Having asthma symptoms when exercising does not mean a student cannot or
should not exercise. Taking part in recess, physical education (PE), and
after-school sports is important for all children. And children with asthma
should not have to sit on the side lines.

School staff and coaches should know your child's asthma triggers, such as:

    * Cold or dry air. Breathing through the nose or wearing a scarf or mask over the mouth may help.
    * Polluted air.
    * Freshly mowed fields or lawns. 

A student with asthma should warm up before exercising and cool down
afterward.

## Helping a Child With Asthma Stay Active in School

Read the student's asthma action plan. Make sure staff members know where it
is kept. Discuss the action plan with the parent or guardian. Find out what
type of activities the student can do and for how long.

Teachers, coaches, and other school staff should know the symptoms of asthma
and what to do if a student has an asthma attack. Help the student take the
medicines listed in their asthma action plan.

Encourage the student to participate in PE. To help prevent an asthma attack,
modify PE activities. For example, a running program might be set up this way:

    * Walk the whole distance
    * Run part of the distance
    * Alternate running and walking 

Some exercises may be less likely to trigger asthma symptoms.

    * Swimming is often a good choice. The warm, moist air may keep symptoms away.
    * Football, baseball, and other sports that have periods of inactivity are less likely to trigger asthma symptoms. 

Activities that are more intense and sustained, such as long periods of
running, basketball, and soccer, are more likely to trigger asthma symptoms.

## Taking Asthma Medicines Before Exercise

If an asthma action plan instructs the student to take medicines before
exercising, remind the student to do so. These may include short-acting and
long-acting medicines.

Short-acting, or quick-relief, medicines:

    * Are taken 10 to 15 minutes before exercise
    * Can help for up to 4 hours 

Long-acting inhaled medicines:

    * Are used at least 30 minutes before exercise
    * Last up to 12 hours 

Children can take long-acting medicines before school and they will help for
the whole day.

## Alternative Names

Asthma - exercise school; Exercise - induced asthma - school

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth M, Hieman BE, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

