Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000209.htm    
                                Description: Asthma is a problem with the airways that bring oxygen to your lungs. A child with asthma may not feel symptoms all the time. But when an asthma attack happens, it becomes hard for air to pass through    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000209.htm

# Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asthma is a problem with the airways that bring oxygen to your lungs. A child
with asthma may not feel symptoms all the time. But when an asthma attack
happens, it becomes hard for air to pass through the airways. The symptoms
are:

    * Coughing
    * Wheezing
    * Chest tightness
    * Shortness of breath 

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your child's asthma.

## Questions

Is my child taking asthma medicines the right way?

    * What medicines should my child take every day (called controller drugs)? What should I do if my child misses a day?
    * Which medicines should my child take when they are short of breath (called rescue drugs)? Is it OK to use these rescue drugs every day?
    * What are the side effects of these medicines? For what side effects should I call the doctor?
    * How will I know when the inhalers are getting empty? Is my child using the inhaler the right way? Should my child be using a spacer? 

What are some signs that a child's asthma is getting worse and that I need to
call the doctor? What should I do when my child feels short of breath?

What shots or vaccinations does my child need?

How do I find out when smog or pollution is worse?

What sort of changes should I make around the home?

    * Can we have a pet? In the house or outside? How about in the bedroom?
    * Is it OK for anyone to smoke in the house? How about if my child is not in the house when someone is smoking?
    * Is it OK for me to clean and vacuum when my child is in the house?
    * Is it OK to have carpets in the house?
    * What type of furniture is best to have?
    * How do I get rid of dust and mold in the house? Do I need to cover my child's bed or pillows?
    * Can my child have stuffed animals?
    * How do I know if I have cockroaches in my home? How do I get rid of them?
    * Can I have a fire in my fireplace or a wood-burning stove? 

What does my child's school or daycare need to know about my child's asthma?

    * Do I need to have an asthma plan for the school?
    * How can I make sure my child can use the medicines at school?
    * Can my child participate fully in gym class at school? 

What types of exercises or activities are better for a child with asthma to
do?

    * Are there times when my child should avoid being outside?
    * Are there things that I can do before my child starts exercising? 

Does my child need tests or treatments for allergies? What should I do when I
know my child will be around something that triggers their asthma?

What type of arrangements do I need to make when we are planning to travel?

    * What medicines should I bring? How do we get refills?
    * Who should I call if my child's asthma gets worse? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about asthma - child

## References

Dunn NA, Neff LA, Maurer DM. A stepwise approach to pediatric asthma. _J Fam
Pract_. 2017;66(5):280-286. PMID: 28459888
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28459888.

Jackson DJ, Lemanske RF, Guilbert TW. Management of asthma in infants and
children. In: Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's
Allergy Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 53.

Liu AH, Covar RA, Spahn JD, Sicherer SH. Childhood asthma. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 144.

## Read More

    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 11/10/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

