Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000990.htm    
                                Description: Asthma is a disease that causes the airways to swell and get narrow. It leads to wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000990.htm

# Asthma in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asthma is a disease that causes the airways to swell and get narrow. It leads
to wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.

## Causes

Asthma is caused by swelling (inflammation) in the airways. During an asthma
attack, the muscles surrounding the airways tighten. The lining of the air
passages swells. As a result, less air is able to pass through.

Asthma is often seen in children. It is a leading cause of missed school days
and hospital visits for children. An allergic reaction is a key part of asthma
in children. Asthma and allergies often occur together.

![Normal versus asthmatic
bronchiole](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19346.jpg)

In children who have sensitive airways, asthma symptoms can be triggered by
breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers.

Common asthma triggers include:

    * Animals (hair or dander)
    * Dust, mold, and pollen
    * Aspirin and other medicines
    * Changes in weather (most often cold weather)
    * Chemicals in the air or in food
    * Tobacco smoke
    * Exercise
    * Strong emotions
    * Viral infections, such as the common cold 

## Symptoms

Breathing problems are common. They can include:

    * Shortness of breath
    * Feeling out of breath
    * Gasping for air
    * Trouble breathing out (exhaling)
    * Breathing faster than normal 

When the child is having a hard time breathing, the skin of the chest and neck
may suck inward.

Other symptoms of asthma in children include:

    * Coughing that sometimes wakes the child up at night (it may be the only symptom).
    * Dark bags under the eyes.
    * Feeling tired.
    * Irritability.
    * Tightness in the chest.
    * A whistling sound made when breathing (wheezing). You may notice it more when the child breathes out. 

Your child's asthma symptoms may vary. Symptoms may appear often or develop
only when triggers are present. Some children are more likely to have asthma
symptoms at night.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will use a stethoscope to listen to the child's
lungs. The provider may be able to hear asthma sounds. However, lung sounds
are often normal when the child is not having an asthma attack.

![Peak flow meter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19367.jpg)

The provider will have the child breathe into a device called a peak flow
meter. Peak flow meters can tell how well the child can blow air out of the
lungs. If the airways are narrow due to asthma, peak flow values drop.

You and your child will learn to measure peak flow at home.

Your child's provider may order the following tests:

    * Allergy testing on the skin, or a blood test to see if your child is allergic to certain substances
    * Chest x-ray
    * Lung function tests

## Treatment

You and your child's providers should work together as a team to create and
carry out an asthma action plan.

This plan will tell you how to:

    * Avoid asthma triggers
    * Monitor symptoms
    * Measure peak flow
    * Take medicines 

The plan should also tell you when to call the provider. It is important to
know what questions to ask your child's provider.

Children with asthma need a lot of support at school.

    * Give the school staff your asthma action plan so they know how to take care of your child's asthma.
    * Find out how to let your child take medicine during school hours. (You may need to sign a consent form.)
    * Having asthma does not mean your child cannot exercise. Coaches, gym teachers, and your child should know what to do if your child has asthma symptoms caused by exercise. 

ASTHMA MEDICINES

There are two basic kinds of medicine used to treat asthma.

Long-term control drugs are taken every day to prevent asthma symptoms. Your
child should take these medicines even if no symptoms are present. Some
children may need more than one long-term control medicine.

Types of long-term control medicines include:

    * Inhaled steroids (these are usually the first choice of treatment)
    * Long-acting bronchodilators (these are almost always used with inhaled steroids)
    * Leukotriene inhibitors
    * Cromolyn sodium 

Quick relief or rescue asthma drugs work fast to control asthma symptoms.
Children take them when they are coughing, wheezing, having trouble breathing,
or having an asthma attack.

Some of your child's asthma medicines can be taken using an inhaler.

    * Children who use an inhaler should use a spacer device. This helps them get the medicine into the lungs properly.
    * If your child uses the inhaler the wrong way, less medicine gets into the lungs. Have your provider show your child how to correctly use an inhaler.
    * Younger children can use a nebulizer instead of an inhaler to take their medicine. A nebulizer turns asthma medicine into a mist. 

GETTING RID OF TRIGGERS

It is important to know your child's asthma triggers. Avoiding them is the
first step toward helping your child feel better.

Keep pets outdoors, or at least away from the child's bedroom.

![Common asthma
triggers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19381.jpg)

No one should smoke in a house or around a child with asthma.

    * Getting rid of tobacco smoke in the home is the single most important thing a family can do to help a child with asthma.
    * Smoking outside the house is not enough. Family members and visitors who smoke carry the smoke inside on their clothes and hair. This can trigger asthma symptoms.
    * DO NOT use indoor fireplaces. 

Keep the house clean. Keep food in containers and out of bedrooms. This helps
reduce the possibility of cockroaches, which can trigger asthma attacks.
Cleaning products in the home should be unscented.

MONITOR YOUR CHILD'S ASTHMA

Checking peak flow is one of the best ways to control asthma. It can help you
keep your child's asthma from getting worse. Asthma attacks usually DO NOT
happen without warning.

Children under age 5 may not be able to use a peak flow meter well enough for
it to be helpful. However, a child should start using the peak flow meter at a
young age to get used to it. An adult should always watch for a child's asthma
symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With proper treatment, most children with asthma can live a normal life. When
asthma is not well controlled, it can lead to missed school, problems playing
sports, missed work for parents, and many visits to the provider's office and
emergency room.

Asthma symptoms often lessen or go away completely as the child gets older.
Asthma that is not well controlled can lead to lasting lung problems.

In rare cases, asthma is a life-threatening disease. Families need to work
closely with their providers to develop a plan to care for a child with
asthma.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if you think your child has new symptoms of asthma.
If your child has been diagnosed with asthma, call the provider:

    * After an emergency room visit
    * When peak flow numbers have been getting lower
    * When symptoms get more frequent and more severe, even though your child is following the asthma action plan 

If your child is having trouble breathing or having an asthma attack, get
medical help right away.

Emergency symptoms include:

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Bluish color to the lips and face
    * Severe anxiety due to shortness of breath
    * Rapid pulse
    * Sweating
    * Decreased level of alertness, such as severe drowsiness or confusion 

A child who is having a severe asthma attack may need to stay in the hospital
and get oxygen and medicines through a vein (intravenous line or IV).

## Alternative Names

Pediatric asthma; Asthma - pediatric; Wheezing - asthma - children

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Images

    * ![Normal versus asthmatic bronchiole](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19346t.jpg)Normal versus asthmatic bronchiole
    * ![Peak flow meter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19367t.jpg)Peak flow meter
    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Common asthma triggers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19381t.jpg)Common asthma triggers

## References

Dunn NA, Neff LA, Maurer DM. A stepwise approach to pediatric asthma. _J Fam
Pract_. 2017;66(5):280-286. PMID: 28459888
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28459888.

Jackson DJ, Lemanske RF, Guilbert TW. Management of asthma in infants and
children. In: Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's
Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 53.

Lugogo N, Que LG, Gilstrap DL, Kraft M. Asthma: clinical diagnosis and
management. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

US Department of Health and Human Services; National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute website. Asthma care quick reference: diagnosing and managing
asthma; guidelines from the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program,
expert panel report 3. www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/asthma_qrg.pdf.
Updated September 2012. Accessed April 15, 2019.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Asthma in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AsthmainChildren_thumb.jpg)Asthma in
Children _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

