Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000019.htm    
                                Description: Children with asthma need a lot of support at school. They may need help from school staff to keep their asthma under control and to be able to do school activities.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma and school

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000019.htm

# Asthma and school

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Children with asthma need a lot of support at school. They may need help from
school staff to keep their asthma under control and to be able to do school
activities.

You should give your child's school staff an asthma action plan that tells
them how to take care of your child's asthma. Ask your child's doctor to write
one.

The student and school staff should follow this asthma action plan. Your child
should be able to take asthma medicines at school when needed.

School staff should know what things make your child's asthma worse. These are
called triggers. Your child should be able to go to another location to get
away from asthma triggers, if needed.

## What Should be in Your Child's School Asthma Action Plan?

Your child's school asthma action plan should include:

    * Phone numbers or email address of your child's doctor, nurse, parents, and guardians
    * A brief history of your child's asthma
    * Asthma symptoms to watch for
    * Your child's personal best peak flow reading
    * What to do to make sure your child can be as active as possible during recess and physical education class 

Include a list of triggers that make your child's asthma worse, such as:

    * Smells from chemicals and cleaning products
    * Grass and weeds
    * Smoke
    * Dust
    * Cockroaches
    * Rooms that are moldy or damp 

Provide details about your child's asthma medicines and how to take them,
including:

    * Daily medicines to control your child's asthma
    * Quick-relief medicines to control asthma symptoms 

Lastly, your child's doctor and parent or guardian's signatures should be on
the action plan as well.

## Who Should Have a Copy of Your Child's School Asthma Action Plan?

These staff should each have a copy of your child's asthma action plan:

    * Your child's teacher
    * School nurse
    * School office
    * Gym teachers and coaches 

## Alternative Names

Asthma action plan - school; Wheezing - school; Reactive airway disease -
school; Bronchial asthma - school

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth SM, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. 11th
ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated December 2016.
Accessed February 28, 2018.

Jackson DJ, Lemanske RF, Guilbert TW. Management of asthma in infants and
children. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's
Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 53.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Wheezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

