Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000001.htm    
                                Description: Your child has asthma, which causes the airways of the lungs to swell and narrow. Now that your child is going home from the hospital, follow the health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma - child - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000001.htm

# Asthma - child - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has asthma, which causes the airways of the lungs to swell and
narrow. Now that your child is going home from the hospital, follow the health
care provider's instructions on how to care for your child. Use the
information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital, the provider helped your child breathe better. This likely
involved giving oxygen through a mask and medicines to open the lung airways.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child will probably still have asthma symptoms after leaving the
hospital. These symptoms include:

    * Wheezing and coughing that may last up to 5 days
    * Sleeping and eating that may take up to a week to return to normal 

You may need to take time off work to care for your child.

## Take Charge of Your Child's Asthma at Home

Make sure you know the asthma symptoms to watch out for in your child.

You should know how to take your child's peak flow reading and understand what
it means.

    * Know your child's personal best number.
    * Know your child's peak flow reading that tells you if their asthma is getting worse.
    * Know your child's peak flow reading that means you need to call your child's provider. 

Keep the phone number for your child's provider with you.

Triggers may make asthma symptoms worse. Know which triggers make your child's
asthma worse and what to do when this happens. Common triggers include:

    * Pets
    * Smells from chemicals and cleaners
    * Grass and weeds
    * Smoke
    * Dust
    * Cockroaches
    * Rooms that are moldy or damp

Know how to prevent or treat asthma symptoms that arise when your child is
active. These things might also trigger your child's asthma:

    * Cold or dry air.
    * Smoky or polluted air.
    * Grass that has just been mowed.
    * Starting and stopping an activity too fast. Try to make sure your child warms up before being very active and cools down after. 

Understand your child's asthma medicines and how they should be taken. These
include:

    * Control medicines that your child takes every day
    * Quick-relief asthma drugs when your child has symptoms 

## Keep Smoking Away From Your Child

No one should smoke in your house. This includes you, your visitors, your
child's babysitters, and anyone else who comes to your house.

Smokers should smoke outside and wear a coat. The coat will keep smoke
particles from sticking to clothes, so it should be left outside or away from
the child.

Ask people who work at your child's day care, preschool, school, and anyone
else who takes care of your child, if they smoke. If they do, make sure they
smoke away from your child.

## School and Asthma

Children with asthma need a lot of support at school. They may need help from
school staff to keep their asthma under control and to be able to do school
activities.

There should be an asthma action plan at school. The people who should have a
copy of the plan include:

    * Your child's teacher
    * The school nurse
    * The school office
    * Gym teachers and coaches 

Your child should be able to take asthma medicines at school when needed.

School staff should know your child's asthma triggers. Your child should be
able to go to another location to get away from asthma triggers, if needed.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's provider if your child is having any of the following:

    * Hard time breathing
    * Chest muscles are pulling in with each breath
    * Breathing faster than 50 to 60 breaths per minute (when not crying)
    * Making a grunting noise
    * Sitting with shoulders hunched over
    * Skin, nails, gums, lips, or area around the eyes is bluish or grayish
    * Extremely tired
    * Not moving around very much
    * Limp or floppy body
    * Nostrils are flaring out when breathing 

Also call the provider if your child:

    * Loses their appetite
    * Is irritable
    * Has trouble sleeping 

## Alternative Names

Pediatric asthma - discharge; Wheezing - discharge; Reactive airway disease -
discharge

## Images

    * ![Asthma control drugs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22865t.jpg)Asthma control drugs

## References

Liu AH, Covar RA, Spahn JD, Sicherer SH. Childhood asthma. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 144.

National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute website. National Asthma Education
and Prevention Program Expert Panel Report 3: Guidelines for the diagnosis and
management of asthma. www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/guidelines-for-
diagnosis-management-of-asthma. Updated September 2012. Accessed June 18,
2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma in children

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers
    * Traveling with breathing problems

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

