Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007685.htm    
                                Description: Hodgkin lymphoma is cancer of lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is found in the lymph nodes, spleen, tonsils, liver, bone marrow, and other organs of the immune system. The immune system protects us against diseases    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hodgkin lymphoma in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007685.htm

# Hodgkin lymphoma in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hodgkin lymphoma is cancer of lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is found in the lymph
nodes, spleen, tonsils, liver, bone marrow, and other organs of the immune
system. The immune system protects us against diseases and infections.

This article is about classical Hodgkin lymphoma in children, the most common
type.

## Causes

In children, Hodgkin lymphoma is more likely to occur between ages 15 to 19
years. The cause of this type of cancer is unknown. But, certain factors may
play a role in Hodgkin lymphoma in children. These factors include:

    * Epstein-Barr virus, the virus that causes mononucleosis
    * Some diseases where the immune system does not work well
    * Family history of Hodgkin lymphoma

Common early childhood infections also may increase the risk.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma include:

    * Painless swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, armpits, or groin (swollen glands)
    * Unexplained fever 
    * Unexplained weight loss
    * Night sweats
    * Fatigue 
    * Loss of appetite
    * Itching all over the body

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take your child's medical history. The provider
will do a physical exam to check for swollen lymph nodes.

The provider may perform these lab tests when Hodgkin disease is suspected:

    * Blood chemistry tests \- including protein levels, liver function tests, kidney function tests, and uric acid level
    * ESR (Sed rate)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Chest x-ray, which often shows signs of a mass in the area between the lungs 

A lymph node biopsy confirms the diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma.

If a biopsy shows that your child has lymphoma, more tests will be done to
find out how far the cancer has spread. This is called staging. Staging helps
guide future treatment and follow-up.

    * CT scan of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * PET scan

Immunophenotyping is a laboratory test used to identify cells, based on the
types of antigens or markers on the surface of the cell. This test is used to
diagnose the specific type of lymphoma by comparing the cancer cells to normal
cells of the immune system.

## Treatment

You may choose to seek care at a children's cancer center.

Treatment will depend on the risk group your child falls into. Other factors
that will be considered include:

    * Your child's age
    * Gender
    * Treatment side effects 

Your child's lymphoma will be grouped as low-risk, intermediate-risk, or high-
risk based on:

    * The type of Hodgkin lymphoma (there are different forms of Hodgkin lymphoma)
    * The stage (where the disease has spread)
    * Whether the main tumor is large and classified a "bulk disease"
    * If this is the first cancer or if it has come back (recurred)
    * The presence of fever, weight loss, and night sweats

Chemotherapy is most often the first treatment.

    * Your child may need to stay in the hospital at first. But the chemotherapy drugs are typically given in a clinic, and your child will still live at home.
    * Chemotherapy is given into the veins (IV) and sometimes by mouth.

Your child may also receive radiation therapy using high-powered x-rays at
cancer-affected areas.

Other treatments may include:

    * Targeted therapy that uses drugs or antibodies to kill cancer cells
    * High-dose chemotherapy may be followed by stem cell transplant (using your child's own stem cells)
    * Surgery to remove the cancer may be needed in some cases 

Having a child with cancer is one of the hardest things you will ever deal
with as a parent. Explaining what it means to have cancer to your child will
not be easy. You will also need to learn how to get help and support so you
can cope more easily.

## Support Groups

Having a child with cancer can be stressful. Joining a support group where
other parents or families share common experiences may help ease your stress.

    * Leukemia and Lymphoma Society -- www.lls.org
    * National Cancer Institute -- www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/patient/child-nhl-treatment-pdq

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hodgkin lymphoma is curable in most cases.Â Even if this form of cancer
returns, chances of a cure are good.

Your child will need to have regular exams and imaging tests for years after
treatment. This will help the provider check for signs of the cancer returning
and for any long-term treatment effects.

## Possible Complications

Treatments for Hodgkin lymphoma may have complications. Side effects of
chemotherapy or radiation therapy may appear months or years after treatment.
These are called "late effects." It is important to talk about treatment
effects with your health care team. What to expect in terms of late effects
depends on the specific treatments your child receives.Â The concern of late
effects must be balanced by the need to treat and cure the cancer.

Continue to follow up with your child's doctor to monitor and help prevent
these complications.  

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if your child has swollen lymph nodes with a fever that
stays for a long time or has other symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma. Call your
child's provider if your child has Hodgkin lymphoma and has side effects from
the treatment.

## Alternative Names

Lymphoma - Hodgkin - children; Hodgkin disease - children; Cancer - Hodgkin
lymphoma - children; Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma

## References

American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) website. Lymphoma - Hodgkin -
childhood. www.cancer.net/cancer-types/lymphoma-hodgkin-childhood. Updated
December 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Hochberg J, Giulino-Roth L, Cairo MS. Lymphoma. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 496.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma treatment (PDQ)
- health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/child-hodgkin-
treatment-pdq. Updated December 1, 2017. Accessed August 6, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hodgkin
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HodgkinDisease_thumb.jpg)Hodgkin
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

