Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000580.htm    
                                Description: Hodgkin lymphoma is a cancer of lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is found in the lymph nodes, spleen, liver, bone marrow, and other sites.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hodgkin lymphoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000580.htm

# Hodgkin lymphoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hodgkin lymphoma is a cancer of lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is found in the
lymph nodes, spleen, liver, bone marrow, and other sites.

![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1104.jpg)

## Causes

The cause of Hodgkin lymphoma is not known. Hodgkin lymphoma is most common
among people 15 to 35 years old and 50 to 70 years old. Past infection with
the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is thought to contribute to some cases. People
with HIV infection are at increased risk compared to the general population.

## Symptoms

The first sign of Hodgkin lymphoma is often a swollen lymph node that appears
without a known cause. The disease can spread to nearby lymph nodes. Later it
may spread to the spleen, liver, bone marrow, or other organs.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Feeling very tired all the time
    * Fever and chills that come and go
    * Itching all over the body that cannot be explained
    * Loss of appetite
    * Drenching night sweats
    * Painless swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, armpits, or groin (swollen glands)
    * Weight loss that cannot be explained 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Coughing, chest pains, or breathing problems if there are swollen lymph nodes in the chest
    * Excessive sweating
    * Pain or feeling of fullness below the ribs due to swollen spleen or liver
    * Pain in lymph nodes after drinking alcohol
    * Skin blushing or flushing 

Symptoms caused by Hodgkin lymphoma may occur with other conditions. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will perform a physical exam and check body areas with lymph
nodes to feel if they are swollen.

![Hodgkin's disease - liver
involvement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2552.jpg)

The disease is often diagnosed after a biopsy of suspected tissue, usually a
lymph node.

![Lymphoma, malignant - CT
scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1186.jpg)

The following procedures will usually be done:

    * Blood chemistry tests including protein levels, liver function tests, kidney function tests, and uric acid level
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
    * Complete blood count (CBC) to check for anemia and white blood count
    * PET scan

If tests show that you have Hodgkin lymphoma, more tests will be done to see
how far the cancer has spread. This is called staging. Staging helps guide
treatment and follow-up.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the following:

    * The type of Hodgkin lymphoma (there are different forms of Hodgkin lymphoma)
    * The stage (where the disease has spread)
    * Your age and other medical issues
    * Other factors, including weight loss, night sweats, and fever

You may receive chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or both. Your provider can
tell you more about your specific treatment.

High-dose chemotherapy may be given when Hodgkin lymphoma returns after
treatment or does not respond to the first treatment. This is followed by a
stem cell transplant that uses your own stem cells.

You and your provider may need to manage other concerns during your treatment,
including:

    * Managing your pets during chemotherapy
    * Bleeding problems
    * Dry mouth
    * Eating enough calories

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hodgkin lymphoma is one of the most curable cancers. Cure is even more likely
if it is diagnosed and treated early. Unlike other cancers, Hodgkin lymphoma
is also very curable in its late stages.

You will need to have regular exams for years after your treatment. This helps
your provider check for signs of the cancer returning and for any long-term
treatment effects.

## Possible Complications

Treatments for Hodgkin lymphoma can have complications. Long-term
complications of chemotherapy or radiation therapy include:

    * Bone marrow diseases (such as leukemia)
    * Heart disease
    * Inability to have children (infertility)
    * Lung problems
    * Other cancers
    * Thyroid problems 

Keep following up with a provider who knows about monitoring and preventing
these complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma
    * You have Hodgkin lymphoma and you have side effects from the treatment 

## Alternative Names

Lymphoma - Hodgkin; Hodgkin disease; Cancer - Hodgkin lymphoma

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Hodgkin's disease - liver involvement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2552t.jpg)Hodgkin's disease - liver involvement
    * ![Lymphoma, malignant - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1186t.jpg)Lymphoma, malignant - CT scan
    * ![Immune system structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8932t.jpg)Immune system structures

## References

Bartlett N, Triska G. Hodgkin lymphoma. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 102.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult Hodgkin lymphoma treatment (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/adult-hodgkin-
treatment-pdq. Updated January 22, 2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma treatment (PDQ)
- health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/child-hodgkin-
treatment-pdq. Updated January 31, 2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: Hodgkin lymphoma. Version 1.2020.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/hodgkins.pdf. Updated January 30,
2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

## Review Date 2/6/2020

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hodgkin
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HodgkinDisease_thumb.jpg)Hodgkin
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

