Link: https://medlineplus.gov/minerals.html    
                                Description: Your body uses minerals to build bones, make hormones, and regulate your heartbeat. Read about the types of minerals and how to get them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Minerals

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/minerals.html

#  Minerals

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Minerals are important for your body to stay healthy. Your body uses minerals
for many different jobs, including keeping your bones, muscles, heart, and
brain working properly. Minerals are also important for making enzymes and
hormones.

There are two kinds of minerals: macrominerals and trace minerals. You need
larger amounts of macrominerals. They include calcium, phosphorus, magnesium,
sodium, potassium, chloride and sulfur. You only need small amounts of trace
minerals. They include iron, manganese, copper, iodine, zinc, cobalt, fluoride
and selenium.

Most people get the amount of minerals they need by eating a wide variety of
foods. In some cases, your doctor may recommend a mineral supplement. People
who have certain health problems or take some medicines may need to get less
of one of the minerals. For example, people with chronic kidney disease need
to limit foods that are high in potassium.

## Start Here

    * Dietary Supplement Label Database (DSLD) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements)
    * Minerals: What They Do and Where to Get Them (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Overview of Minerals (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Trace Elements: What They Do and Where to Get Them (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Vitamins and Minerals: How to Get What You Need (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Metals: In Sickness and in Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences)
    * Minerals, Inorganic Substances (American Heart Association)
    * Percent Daily Value: What Does It Mean? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Chromium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements)
    * Iodine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements) Also in Spanish
    * Magnesium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements) Also in Spanish
    * Manganese ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements)
    * Selenium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements) Also in Spanish
    * Zinc ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT): Questions and Answers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Minerals ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Processed and ultra-processed foods are associated with high prevalence of inadequate...
    * Article: Mineral and phytochemical composition of baobab (Adansonia digitata L.) root tubers...
    * Article: The Role of Early Pregnancy Maternal Selenium Levels on the Risk...
    * Minerals -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Definitions of Health Terms: Minerals ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)
    * Food and Drug Administration
    * Food and Nutrition Information Center
    * National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Minerals (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Vitamins and Minerals (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Chloride in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chromium in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Copper in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Iodine in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Magnesium in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Phosphorus in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Selenium in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Zinc in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Chloride in diet
    * Chromium in diet
    * Copper in diet
    * Iodine in diet
    * Magnesium in diet
    * Phosphorus in diet
    * Selenium in diet
    * Zinc in diet

## Related Health Topics

    * Antioxidants
    * Calcium
    * Dietary Supplements
    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * Iron
    * Nutrition
    * Potassium
    * Sodium
    * Vitamins

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Minerals is the NIH Office of
Dietary Supplements

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 April 2015

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

