Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000617.htm    
                                Description: Cryptosporidium enteritis is an infection of the small intestine that causes diarrhea. The parasite cryptosporidium causes this infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cryptosporidium enteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000617.htm

# Cryptosporidium enteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryptosporidium enteritis is an infection of the small intestine that causes
diarrhea. The parasite cryptosporidium causes this infection.

## Causes

Cryptosporidium has recently been recognized as a cause of diarrhea worldwide
in all age groups. It has a greater effect on people with a weakened immune
system, including:

    * People who take medicines to suppress their immune system 
    * People with HIV/AIDS
    * Transplant recipients 

In these groups, this infection is not just bothersome, but can lead to severe
and life-threatening loss of muscle and body mass (wasting) and malnutrition.

The major risk factor is drinking water that is contaminated with feces
(stool). People at higher risk include:

    * Animal handlers
    * People who are in close contact with infected people
    * Young children

Outbreaks have been linked to:

    * Drinking from contaminated public water supplies
    * Drinking unpasteurized cider
    * Swimming in contaminated pools and lakes

Some outbreaks have been very large.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of infection include:

    * Abdominal cramping
    * Diarrhea, which is often watery, large-volume, and occurs many times a day
    * General sick feeling (malaise) 
    * Malnutrition and weight loss (in severe cases)
    * Nausea

## Exams and Tests

These tests may be done:

    * Antibody test to see if cryptosporidium is in the stool
    * Intestinal biopsy (rare)
    * Stool exam with special techniques (AFB staining)
    * Stool exam using a microscope to look for the parasites and their eggs

## Treatment

There are several treatments for cryptosporidium enteritis.

Drugs such as nitazoxanide have been used in children and adults. Other drugs
that are sometimes used include:

    * Atovaquone
    * Paromomycin

These drugs often help only for a little while. It is common for the infection
to return.

The best approach is to improve immune function in people who have a weakened
immune system. In people with HIV/AIDS, this can be done by using highly
active antiviral therapy. Using this type of treatment can lead to a complete
remission of cryptosporidium enteritis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In healthy people, the infection will clear up, but it can last up to a month.
In people with a weakened immune system, long-term diarrhea may cause weight
loss and malnutrition.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Inflammation of a bile duct
    * Inflammation of the gallbladder
    * Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)
    * Malabsorption (not enough nutrients being absorbed from the intestinal tract)
    * Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Loss of body mass that causes extreme thinness and weakness (wasting syndrome)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you develop watery diarrhea that does not
go away within a few days, especially if you have a weakened immune system.

## Prevention

Proper sanitation and hygiene, including handwashing, are important measures
for preventing this illness.

Certain water filters can also reduce risk by filtering out the
cryptosporidium eggs. However, the pores of the filter must be smaller than 1
micron to be effective. If you have a weakened immune system, ask your
provider if you need to boil your water.

## Alternative Names

Cryptosporidiosis

## Images

    * ![Cryptosporidium - organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1395t.jpg)Cryptosporidium - organism
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Huston CD. Intestinal protozoa. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 113.

Lima AAM, Guerrant RL. Cryptosporidiosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 350.

White AC. Cryptosporidiosis (Cryptosporidium species). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 284.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cryptosporidiosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cryptosporidiosis_thumb.jpg)Cryptosporidiosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

