Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001299.htm    
                                Description: Leukemia is a type of blood cancer that begins in the bone marrow. Bone marrow is the soft tissue in the center of the bones, where blood cells are produced.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leukemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001299.htm

# Leukemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leukemia is a type of blood cancer that begins in the bone marrow. Bone marrow
is the soft tissue in the center of the bones, where blood cells are produced.

The term leukemia means white blood. White blood cells (leukocytes) are used
by the body to fight infections and other foreign substances. Leukocytes are
made in the bone marrow.

Leukemia leads to an uncontrolled increase in the number of white blood cells.

The cancerous cells prevent healthy red cells, platelets, and mature white
cells (leukocytes) from being made. Life-threatening symptoms can then develop
as normal blood cells decline.

The cancer cells can spread to the bloodstream and lymph nodes. They can also
travel to the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system) and other
parts of the body.

Leukemia can affect children and adults.

Leukemias are divided into two major types:

    * Acute (which progresses quickly)
    * Chronic (which progresses more slowly) 

The main types of leukemia are:

    * Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)
    * Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Acute lymphocytic leukemia - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1221t.jpg)Acute lymphocytic leukemia - photomicrograph
    * ![Auer rods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1441t.jpg)Auer rods
    * ![Chronic lymphocytic leukemia - microscopic view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1443t.jpg)Chronic lymphocytic leukemia - microscopic view
    * ![Chronic myelocytic leukemia - microscopic view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1445t.jpg)Chronic myelocytic leukemia - microscopic view
    * ![Chronic myelocytic leukemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1446t.jpg)Chronic myelocytic leukemia
    * ![Chronic myelocytic leukemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1447t.jpg)Chronic myelocytic leukemia

## References

Appelbaum FR. Acute leukemias in adults. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 98.

Campana D, Pui C-H. Childhood leukemia. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 96.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Leukemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

