Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000570.htm    
                                Description: Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is cancer that starts inside bone marrow. This is the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps form all blood cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000570.htm

# Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is cancer that starts inside bone marrow.
This is the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps form all blood
cells.

CML causes an uncontrolled growth of immature and mature cells that make a
certain type of white blood cell called myeloid cells. The diseased cells
build up in the bone marrow and blood.

## Causes

Cause of CML is related to an abnormal chromosome called the Philadelphia
chromosome.

Radiation exposure can increase the risk of developing CML. Radiation exposure
can be from radiation treatments used in the past to treat thyroid cancer or
Hodgkin lymphoma or from a nuclear disaster.

It takes many years to develop leukemia from radiation exposure. Most people
treated for cancer with radiation do not develop leukemia. And most people
with CML have not been exposed to radiation.

CML most often occurs in middle-age adults and in children.

## Symptoms

Chronic myelogenous leukemia is grouped into phases:

    * Chronic
    * Accelerated
    * Blast crisis

The chronic phase can last for months or years. The disease may have few or no
symptoms during this time. Most people are diagnosed during this stage, when
they have blood tests done for other reasons.

The accelerated phase is a more dangerous phase. Leukemia cells grow more
quickly. Common symptoms include fever (even without infection), bone pain,
and a swollen spleen.

Untreated CML leads to the blast crisis phase. Bleeding and infection may
occur due to bone marrow failure.

Other possible symptoms of a blast crisis include:

    * Bruising
    * Excessive sweating (night sweats)
    * Fatigue
    * Fever 
    * Pressure under the lower left ribs from a swollen spleen 
    * Rash -- small pinpoint red marks on the skin (petechiae)
    * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination often reveals a swollen spleen. A complete blood count
(CBC) shows an increased number of white blood cells with many immature forms
present and an increased number of platelets. These are parts of the blood
that help blood clot.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Blood and bone marrow testing for the presence of the Philadelphia chromosome 
    * Platelet count

## Treatment

Medicines that target the abnormal protein made by the Philadelphia chromosome
are often the first treatment for CML. These medicines can be taken as pills.Â
People treated with these drugs often go into remission quickly and can stay
in remission for many years.

Sometimes, chemotherapy is used first to reduce the white blood cell count if
it is very high at diagnosis.

The blast crisis phase is very difficult to treat. This is because there is a
very high count of immature white blood cells (leukemia cells) that are
resistant to treatment.

The only known cure for CML is a bone marrow transplant, or stem cell
transplant. Most people, though, do not need a transplant because the targeted
medicines are successful. Discuss your options with your oncologist.

You and your health care provider may need to manage many other issues or
concerns during your leukemia treatment, including:

    * Managing your pets during chemotherapy
    * Bleeding problems
    * Eating enough calories when you are sick
    * Swelling and pain in your mouth
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Targeted medicines have greatly improved the outlook for people with CML. When
the signs and symptoms of CML go away and blood counts and bone marrow biopsy
appear normal, the person is considered in remission. Most people can remain
in remission for many years while on this medicine.

Stem cell or bone marrow transplant is often considered in people whose
disease comes back or gets worse while taking the initial medicines.
Transplant may also be recommended for people who are diagnosed in accelerated
phase or blast crisis.

## Possible Complications

Blast crisis can lead to complications, including infection, bleeding,
fatigue, unexplained fever, and kidney problems. Chemotherapy can have serious
side effects, depending on the drugs used.

## Prevention

Avoid exposure to radiation when possible.

## Alternative Names

CML; Chronic myeloid leukemia; CGL; Chronic granulocytic leukemia; Leukemia -
chronic granulocytic

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Chronic myelocytic leukemia - microscopic view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1445t.jpg)Chronic myelocytic leukemia - microscopic view
    * ![Chronic myelocytic leukemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1446t.jpg)Chronic myelocytic leukemia
    * ![Chronic myelocytic leukemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1447t.jpg)Chronic myelocytic leukemia

## References

Kantarjian H, Cortes J. Chronic myeloid leukemia. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage
JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 101.

National Cancer Institute website. Chronic myelogenous leukemia treatment
(PDQ) â health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/cml-
treatment-pdq. Updated February 7, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: chronic myelogenous leukemia (NCCN guidelines).
Version 4.2018. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/cml.pdf. Updated
January 24, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Chronic
Myeloid Leukemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

