Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007656.htm    
                                Description: Acute myeloid leukemia is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. Bone marrow is the soft tissue inside bones that helps form blood cells. Acute means the cancer develops quickly.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007656.htm

# Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute myeloid leukemia is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. Bone marrow
is the soft tissue inside bones that helps form blood cells. Acute means the
cancer develops quickly.

Both adults and children can get acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This article is
about AML in children.

## Causes

In children, AML is very rare.

AML involves cells in the bone marrow that usually become white blood cells.
These leukemia cells build up in the bone marrow and blood, leaving no space
for healthy red and white blood cells and platelets to form. Because there are
not enough healthy cells to do their jobs, children with AML are more likely
to have:

    * Anemia
    * Increased risk for bleeding and bruising
    * Infections 

Most of the time, what causes AML is unknown. In children, some things can
increase the risk of developing AML:

    * Exposure to alcohol or tobacco smoke before birth
    * A history of certain diseases, such as aplastic anemia
    * Certain genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome
    * Past treatment with some drugs used to treat cancer
    * Past treatment with radiation therapy 

Having one or more risk factor does not mean your child will develop cancer.
Most children who develop AML have no known risk factors.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of AML include:

    * Bone or joint pain
    * Frequent infections
    * Easy bleeding or bruising
    * Feeling weak or tired
    * Fever with or without an infection
    * Night sweats
    * Painless lumps in the neck, armpits, stomach, groin, or other parts of the body that may be blue or purple
    * Pinpoint spots under the skin caused by bleeding
    * Shortness of breath
    * Loss of appetite and eating less food

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform the following exams and tests:

    * Physical exam and health history
    * Complete blood count (CBC) and other blood tests
    * Blood chemistry study
    * Chest x-ray
    * Biopsies of the bone marrow, tumor, or lymph node
    * A test to look for changes in the chromosomes in blood or bone marrow

Other tests may be done to determine the specific type of AML.

## Treatment

Treatment for children with AML may include:

    * Anticancer drugs (chemotherapy)
    * Radiation therapy
    * Certain types of targeted therapy
    * Blood transfusions may be given to help treat anemia

The provider may suggest a bone marrow transplant. A transplant is usually not
done until the AML is in remission from initial chemotherapy. Remission means
no signs of cancer can be found in an exam or with testing. A transplant can
improve the chances of a cure and long-term survival for some children.

Your child's treatment team will explain the different options to you. You may
want to take notes. Be sure to ask questions if you don't understand
something.

## Support Groups

Having a child with cancer can make you feel very alone. In a cancer support
group, you can find people who are going through the same things you are. They
can help you cope with your feelings. They can also help you find help or
solutions for problems. Ask your health care team or staff at the cancer
center to help you find a support group.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cancer can come back at any time. But with AML, it is very unlikely to come
back after being gone for 5 years.

## Possible Complications

The leukemia cells can spread from the blood to other parts of the body, such
as:

    * Brain
    * Spinal fluid
    * Skin
    * Gums

The cancer cells can also form a solid tumor in the body.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider right away if your child develops
any symptoms of AML.

Also, see your provider if your child has AML and a fever or other signs of
infection that will not go away.

## Prevention

Many childhood cancers can't be prevented. Most children who develop leukemia
have no risk factors.

## Alternative Names

Acute myelogenous leukemia - children; AML - children; Acute granulocytic
leukemia - children; Acute myeloblastic leukemia - children; Acute non-
lymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) - children

## References

American Cancer Society website. About childhood leukemia.
www.cancer.org/cancer/leukemia-in-children/about.html. Updated February 3,
2016. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood acute myeloid leukemia/other
myeloid malignancies treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/child-aml-treatment-pdq. Updated November 30,
2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Redner A, Kessel R. Acute myeloid leukemia. In: Lanzkowsky P, Lipton JM, Fish
JD, eds. _Lanzkowsky's Manual of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Myeloid Leukemia _Read more_

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

