Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000034.htm    
                                Description: When children are sick or undergoing cancer treatment, they may not feel like eating. But your child needs to get enough protein and calories to grow and develop. Eating well can help your child handle    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eating extra calories when sick - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000034.htm

# Eating extra calories when sick - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When children are sick or undergoing cancer treatment, they may not feel like
eating. But your child needs to get enough protein and calories to grow and
develop. Eating well can help your child handle the illness and side effects
of treatment better.

## Caring for Your Child

Change your children's eating habits to help them get more calories.

    * Let your child eat when hungry, not just at mealtimes.
    * Give your child 5 or 6 small meals a day instead of 3 large ones.
    * Keep healthy snacks handy.
    * Don't let your child fill up on water or juice before or during meals.

Make eating pleasant and fun.

    * Play music your child likes.
    * Eat with family or friends.
    * Try new recipes or new foods your child might like.

## Ways to add Calories to Your Child's Food

For infants and babies:

    * Feed babies infant formula or breast milk when they are thirsty, not juices or water.
    * Feed babies solid food when they are 4 to 6 months old, especially foods that have a lot of calories. 

For toddlers and preschoolers:

    * Give children whole milk with meals, not juices, low-fat milk, or water.
    * Ask your child's health care provider if it is OK to sautÃ© or fry food.
    * Add butter or margarine to foods when you are cooking, or put them on foods that are already cooked.
    * Feed your child peanut butter sandwiches, or put peanut butter on vegetables or fruits, such as carrots and apples.
    * Mix canned soups with half-and-half or cream.
    * Use half-and-half or cream in casseroles and mashed potatoes, and on cereal.
    * Add protein supplements to yogurt, milkshakes, fruit smoothies, and pudding.
    * Offer your child milkshakes between meals.
    * Add cream sauce or melt cheese over vegetables.
    * Ask your child's provider if liquid nutrition drinks are OK to try. 

## Alternative Names

Getting more calories - children; Chemotherapy - calories; Transplant -
calories; Cancer treatment - calories

## References

Agrawal AK, Feusner J. Supportive care of patients with cancer. In: Lanzkowsky
P, Lipton JM, Fish JD, eds. _Lanzkowsky's Manual of Pediatric Hematology and
Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

American Cancer Society website. Nutrition for children with cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/children-and-cancer/when-your-child-has-
cancer/nutrition.html. Updated June 30, 2014. Accessed March 20, 2016.

National Cancer Institute website. Nutrition in cancer care (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-
effects/appetite-loss/nutrition-hp-pdq. Updated November 17, 2017. Accessed
February 27, 2018.

## Read More

    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Pediatric heart surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Brain radiation - discharge
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * Spleen removal - child - discharge
    * When you have diarrhea

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer in Children
    * Child Nutrition
    * Childhood Brain Tumors
    * Childhood Leukemia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

