Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002064.htm    
                                Description: Alternative medicine refers to low- to no-riskÂ treatments that are used instead of conventional (standard) ones. If you use an alternative treatment along with conventional medicine or therapy, it is considered    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alternative medicine - pain relief

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002064.htm

# Alternative medicine - pain relief

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alternative medicine refers to low- to no-riskÂ treatments that are used
instead of conventional (standard) ones. If you use an alternative treatment
along with conventional medicine or therapy, it is considered complementary
therapy.

There are many forms of alternative medicine.Â Alternatives to medicines
include acupuncture, chiropractic, massage, hypnosis, biofeedback, meditation,
yoga, and tai-chi.

Acupuncture involves stimulating certain acupoints on the body using fine
needles or other methods. How acupuncture works is not entirely clear. It is
thought that acupoints lie near nerve fibers. When acupoints are stimulated,
the nerve fibers signal the spinal cord and brain to release chemicals that
relieve pain.

Acupuncture is an effective means of relieving pain, such as for back pain and
headache pain. Acupuncture may also help relieve pain due to:

    * Cancer
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Fibromyalgia
    * Childbirth (labor)
    * Musculoskeletal injuries (such as the neck, shoulder, knee, or elbow)
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Rheumatoid arthritis

Hypnosis is a focused state of concentration. With self-hypnosis, you repeat a
positive statement over and over.

Hypnosis may help relieve pain for:

    * After surgery or labor
    * Arthritis
    * Cancer
    * Fibromyalgia
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Migraine headache
    * Tension headache

Both acupuncture and hypnosis are often offered by pain management centers in
the United States. Other non-drug methods used at such centers include:

    * Biofeedback
    * Massage
    * Relaxation training
    * Physical therapy

## Alternative Names

Acupuncture - pain relief; Hypnosis - pain relief; Guided imagery - pain
relief

## Images

    * ![Acupuncture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17006t.jpg)Acupuncture

## References

Ernst E. A critical appraisal of complementary and alternative medicine. In:
McMahon SB, Koltzenburg M, Tracey I, Turk DC, eds. _Wall & Melzack's Textbook
of Pain_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 43.

Perlman A. Complementary and alternative medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 39.

White JD. Complementary and alternative medicine. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage
JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 33.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Non-drugPainManagement_thumb.jpg)Non-Drug
Pain Management _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

