Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003311.htm    
                                Description: Enlarged fontanelles are larger than expected soft spots for the age of a baby.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fontanelles - enlarged

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003311.htm

# Fontanelles - enlarged

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enlarged fontanelles are larger than expected soft spots for the age of a
baby.

The skull of an infant or young child is made up of bony plates that allow for
growth of the skull. The borders at which these plates intersect are called
sutures or suture lines. The spaces where these connect, but are not
completely joined, are called soft spots or fontanelles (fontanel or
fonticulus).

## Considerations

Fontanelles allow for growth of the skull during an infant's first year. Slow
or incomplete closure of the skull bones is most often the cause of a wide
fontanelle.

## Causes

Larger than normal fontanelles are most commonly caused by:

    * Down syndrome
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR)
    * Premature birth 

Rarer causes:

    * Achondroplasia
    * Apert syndrome
    * Cleidocranial dysostosis
    * Congenital rubella
    * Neonatal hypothyroidism
    * Osteogenesis imperfecta
    * Rickets 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you think that the fontanelles on your baby's head are larger than they
should be, talk to your health care provider. Most of the time, this sign will
have been seen during the baby's first medical exam.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

An enlarged large fontanelle is almost always found by the provider during a
physical exam.

    * The provider will examine the child and measure the child's head around the largest area. 
    * The doctor may also turn off the lights and shine a bright light over the child's head.
    * Your baby's soft spot will be regularly checked at each well-child visit.

Blood tests and imaging tests of the head may be done.

## Alternative Names

Soft spot - large; Newborn care - enlarged fontanelle; Neonatal care -
enlarged fontanelle

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn
    * ![Fontanelles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17179t.jpg)Fontanelles
    * ![Large fontanelles \(lateral view\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9334t.jpg)Large fontanelles (lateral view)
    * ![Large fontanelles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9335t.jpg)Large fontanelles

## References

Haddad J, Keesecker S. Congenital malformations. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 638.

Robinson S, Cohen AR. Disorders in head shape and size. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 64.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

