Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000991.htm    
                                Description: Failure to thrive refers to children whose current weight or rate of weight gain is much lower than that of other children of similar age and gender.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Failure to thrive

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000991.htm

# Failure to thrive

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Failure to thrive refers to children whose current weight or rate of weight
gain is much lower than that of other children of similar age and gender.

## Causes

Failure to thrive may be caused by medical problems or factors in the child's
environment, such as abuse or neglect.

There are many medical causes of failure to thrive. These include:

    * Problems with genes, such as Down syndrome
    * Organ problems
    * Hormone problems
    * Damage to the brain or central nervous system, which may cause feeding difficulties in an infant
    * Heart or lung problems, which can affect how nutrients move through the body
    * Anemia or other blood disorders
    * Gastrointestinal problems that make it hard to absorb nutrients or cause a lack of digestive enzymes
    * Long-term (chronic) infections
    * Metabolism problems
    * Problems during pregnancy or low birth weight 

Factors in the child's environment include:

    * Loss of emotional bond between parent and child
    * Poverty
    * Problems with child-caregiver relationship
    * Parents do not understand the appropriate diet needs for their child
    * Exposure to infections, parasites, or toxins
    * Poor eating habits, such as eating in front of the television and not having formal meal times 

Many times, the cause cannot be determined.

## Symptoms

Children who fail to thrive do not grow and develop normally as compared to
children of the same age. They seem to be much smaller or shorter. Teenagers
may not have the usual changes that occur at puberty.

Symptoms of failure to thrive include:

    * Height, weight, and head circumference do not match standard growth charts
    * Weight is lower than third percentile of standard growth charts or 20% below the ideal weight for their height
    * Growth may have slowed or stopped 

The following may be delayed or slow to develop in children who fail to
thrive:

    * Physical skills, such as rolling over, sitting, standing and walking
    * Mental and social skills
    * Secondary sexual characteristics (delayed in adolescents) 

Babies who fail to gain weight or develop often lack interest in feeding or
have a problem receiving the proper amount of nutrition. This is called poor
feeding.

Other symptoms that may be seen in a child that fails to thrive include:

    * Constipation
    * Excessive crying
    * Excessive sleepiness (lethargy)
    * Irritability 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and check the child's
height, weight, and body shape. Parents will be asked about the child's
medical and family history.

A special test called the Denver Developmental Screening Test may be used to
show any delays in development. A growth chart outlining all types of growth
since birth is created.

The following tests may be done:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Electrolyte balance
    * Hemoglobin electrophoresis to check for conditions such as sickle cell disease
    * Hormone studies, including thyroid function tests
    * X-rays to determine bone age
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the delayed growth and development. Delayed
growth due to nutritional problems can be helped by showing the parents how to
provide a well-balanced diet.

Do not give your child dietary supplements such as Boost or Ensure without
talking to your provider first.

Other treatment depends on how severe the condition is. The following may be
recommended:

    * Increase the number of calories and amount of fluid the infant receives
    * Correct any vitamin or mineral deficiencies
    * Identify and treat any other medical conditions 

The child may need to stay in the hospital for a little while.

Treatment may also involve improving the family relationships and living
conditions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Normal growth and development may be affected if a child fails to thrive for a
long time.

Normal growth and development may continue if the child has failed to thrive
for a short time, and the cause is determined and treated.

## Possible Complications

Permanent mental, emotional, or physical delays can occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if your child does not seem to be
developing normally.

## Prevention

Regular checkups can help detect failure to thrive in children.

## Alternative Names

Growth failure; FTT; Feeding disorder; Poor feeding

## Patient Instructions

    * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
    * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
    * Jejunostomy feeding tube 

## References

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Failure to thrive. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 21.

Turay F, Rudolph JA. Nutrition and gastroenterology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire
SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

