Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001563.htm    
                                Description: Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a problem often seen in premature babies. The condition makes it hard for the baby to breathe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001563.htm

# Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a problem often seen in
premature babies. The condition makes it hard for the baby to breathe.

## Causes

Neonatal RDS occurs in infants whose lungs have not yet fully developed.

The disease is mainly caused by a lack of a slippery substance in the lungs
called surfactant. This substance helps the lungs fill with air and keeps the
air sacs from deflating. Surfactant is present when the lungs are fully
developed.

Neonatal RDS can also be due to genetic problems with lung development.

Most cases of RDS occur in babies born before 37 to 39 weeks. The more
premature the baby is, the higher the chance of RDS after birth. The problem
is uncommon in babies born full-term (after 39 weeks).

Other factors that can increase the risk of RDS include:

    * A brother or sister who had RDS
    * Diabetes in the mother
    * Cesarean delivery or induction of labor before the baby is full-term
    * Problems with delivery that reduce blood flow to the baby
    * Multiple pregnancy (twins or more)
    * Rapid labor 

## Symptoms

Most of the time, symptoms appear within minutes of birth. However, they may
not be seen for several hours. Symptoms may include:

    * Bluish color of the skin and mucus membranes (cyanosis)
    * Brief stop in breathing (apnea)
    * Decreased urine output
    * Nasal flaring
    * Rapid breathing
    * Shallow breathing
    * Shortness of breath and grunting sounds while breathing
    * Unusual breathing movement (such as drawing back of the chest muscles with breathing) 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests are used to detect the condition:

    * Blood gas analysis -- shows low oxygen and excess acid in the body fluids.
    * Chest x-ray -- shows a "ground glass" appearance to the lungs that is typical of the disease. This often develops 6 to 12 hours after birth.
    * Lab tests -- help to rule out infection as a cause of breathing problems.

## Treatment

Babies who are premature or have other conditions that make them at high risk
for the problem need to be treated at birth by a medical team that specializes
in newborn breathing problems.

Infants will be given warm, moist oxygen. However, this treatment needs to be
monitored carefully to avoid side effects from too much oxygen.

Giving extra surfactant to a sick infant has been shown to be helpful.
However, the surfactant is delivered directly into the baby's airway, so some
risk is involved. More research still needs to be done on which babies should
get this treatment and how much to use.

Assisted ventilation with a ventilator (breathing machine) can be lifesaving
for some babies. However, use of a breathing machine can damage the lung
tissue, so this treatment should be avoided if possible. Babies may need this
treatment if they have:

    * High level of carbon dioxide in the blood
    * Low blood oxygen
    * Low blood pH (acidity)
    * Repeated pauses in breathing

A treatment called continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) may prevent the
need for assisted ventilation or surfactant in many babies. CPAP sends air
into the nose to help keep the airways open. It can be given by a ventilator
(while the baby is breathing independently) or with a separate CPAP device.

Babies with RDS need close care. This includes:

    * Having a calm setting
    * Gentle handling
    * Staying at an ideal body temperature
    * Carefully managing fluids and nutrition
    * Treating infections right away

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition often gets worse for 2 to 4 days after birth and improves slowly
after that. Some infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome will die.
This most often occurs between days 2 and 7.

Long-term complications may develop due to:

    * Too much oxygen.
    * High pressure delivered to the lungs.
    * More severe disease or immaturity. RDS can be associated with inflammation that causes lung or brain damage.
    * Periods when the brain or other organs did not get enough oxygen.

## Possible Complications

Air or gas may build up in:

    * The space surrounding the lungs (pneumothorax)
    * The space in the chest between two lungs (pneumomediastinum)
    * The area between the heart and the thin sac that surrounds the heart (pneumopericardium) 

Other conditions associated with RDS or extreme prematurity may include:

    * Bleeding into the brain (intraventricular hemorrhage of the newborn)
    * Bleeding into the lung (pulmonary hemorrhage; sometimes associated with surfactant use)
    * Problems with lung development and growth (bronchopulmonary dysplasia)
    * Delayed development or intellectual disability associated with brain damage or bleeding
    * Problems with eye development (retinopathy of prematurity) and blindness 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most of the time, this problem develops shortly after birth while the baby is
still in the hospital. If you have given birth at home or outside a medical
center, get emergency help if your baby has breathing problems.

## Prevention

Taking steps to prevent premature birth can help prevent neonatal RDS. Good
prenatal care and regular checkups beginning as soon as a woman discovers she
is pregnant can help avoid premature birth.

The risk of RDS can also be lessened by the proper timing of delivery. An
induced delivery or cesarean may be needed. A lab test can be done before
delivery to check the readiness of the baby's lungs. Unless medically
necessary, induced or cesarean deliveries should be delayed until at least 39
weeks or until tests show that the baby's lungs have matured.

Medicines called corticosteroids can help speed up lung development before a
baby is born. They are often given to pregnant women between 24 and 34 weeks
of pregnancy who seem likely to deliver in the next week. More research is
needed to determine if corticosteroids may also benefit babies who are younger
than 24 or older than 34 weeks.

At times, it may be possible to give other medicines to delay labor and
delivery until the steroid medicine has time to work. This treatment may
reduce the severity of RDS. It may also help prevent other complications of
prematurity. However, it will not totally remove the risks.

## Alternative Names

Hyaline membrane disease (HMD); Infant respiratory distress syndrome;
Respiratory distress syndrome in infants; RDS - infants

## References

Kamath-Rayne BD, Jobe AH. Fetal lung development and surfactant. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

Klilegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Diffuse
lung diseases in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,Â Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 434.

Rozance PJ, Rosenberg AA. The neonate. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

Wambach JA, Hamvas A. Respiratory distress syndrome in the neonate. In Martin
RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 72.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

