Link: https://medlineplus.gov/sprainsandstrains.html    
                                Description: A sprain is a stretch or tear of a ligament while a strain is an injury to a muscle or tendon. Learn how to lower your risks of sprains and strains.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Sprains and Strains

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/sprainsandstrains.html

#  Sprains and Strains

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A sprain is a stretched or torn ligament. Ligaments are tissues that connect
bones at a joint. Falling, twisting, or getting hit can all cause a sprain.
Ankle and wrist sprains are common. Symptoms include pain, swelling, bruising,
and being unable to move your joint. You might feel a pop or tear when the
injury happens.

A strain is a stretched or torn muscle or tendon. Tendons are tissues that
connect muscle to bone. Twisting or pulling these tissues can cause a strain.
Strains can happen suddenly or develop over time. Back and hamstring muscle
strains are common. Many people get strains playing sports. Symptoms include
pain, muscle spasms, swelling, and trouble moving the muscle.

At first, treatment of both sprains and strains usually involves resting the
injured area, icing it, wearing a bandage or device that compresses the area,
and medicines. Later treatment might include exercise and physical therapy.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Sprains and Strains ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * MRI of the Musculoskeletal System (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Musculoskeletal Ultrasound (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Stretching Safely and Effectively (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * How to Care for a Sprained Ankle (American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society)
    * Strains and Sprains (Nemours Foundation)

## Living With

    * How to Strengthen Your Ankle After a Sprain (American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society)
    * How to Stretch Your Ankle After a Sprain (American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society)
    * Mobility Aids: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) \- Canes, crutches, walkers, wheelchairs Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Hamstring Injury (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Thumb Sprains (American Society for Surgery of the Hand) Also in Spanish
    * Whiplash ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Wrist Sprains (American Society for Surgery of the Hand) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sprains and Strains ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: A Randomized Study of a Strength Training Program to Prevent Injuries...
    * Article: Health Consequences of Youth Sport Specialization.
    * Article: Sport Specialization and Overuse Injuries in Adolescent Throwing Athletes: A Narrative...
    * Sprains and Strains -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Ankle Sprain Treatment (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Ankle Sprains (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Strains and Sprains (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Ankle sprain - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Elbow sprain -- aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Foot sprain - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hamstring strain - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip flexor strain -- aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sprains (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Strains (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tendon repair (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Wrist sprain - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Sprains and Strains](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SprainsandStrains.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Ankle sprain - aftercare
    * Elbow sprain -- aftercare
    * Foot sprain - aftercare
    * Hamstring strain - aftercare
    * Hip flexor strain -- aftercare
    * Sprains
    * Strains
    * Tendon repair
    * Wrist sprain - aftercare

## Related Health Topics

    * Sports Injuries
    * Tendinitis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Sprains and Strains is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Sprains and
Strains_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 11 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

