Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003214.htm    
                                Description: Young children who cannot talk yet will let you know when something is wrong by acting fussy or irritable. If your child is fussier than usual, it could be a sign that something is wrong.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fussy or irritable child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003214.htm

# Fussy or irritable child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Young children who cannot talk yet will let you know when something is wrong
by acting fussy or irritable. If your child is fussier than usual, it could be
a sign that something is wrong.

## Causes

It is normal for children to get fussy or whiny sometimes. There are lots of
reasons why children get fussy:

    * Lack of sleep
    * Hunger
    * Frustration
    * Fight with a sibling
    * Being too hot or too cold 

Your child also may be worried about something. Ask yourself if there has been
stress, sadness, or anger in your home. Young children are sensitive to stress
at home, and to the mood of their parents or caregivers.

A baby who cries for longer than 3 hours a day might have colic. Learn ways
that you can help your baby with colic.

Many common childhood illnesses can cause a child to be fussy. Most illnesses
are easily treated. They include:

    * Ear infection
    * Teething or a toothache
    * Cold or flu
    * Bladder infection
    * Stomach pain or stomach flu
    * Headache
    * Constipation
    * Pinworm
    * Poor sleep patterns 

Although less common, your child's fussiness may be an early sign of a more
serious problem, such as:

    * Diabetes, asthma, anemia (low blood count), or other health problem
    * Serious infections, such as an infection in the lungs, kidneys, or around the brain
    * Head injury that you did not see happen
    * Hearing or speech problems
    * Autism or abnormal brain development (if fussiness does not go away and becomes more severe)
    * Depression or other mental health problems
    * Pain, such as headache or stomach ache 

## Home Care

Soothe your child as you would normally. Try rocking, cuddling, talking, or
doing things your child finds calming.

Address other factors that may be causing fussiness:

    * Poor sleep patterns
    * Noise or stimulation around your child (too much or too little can be a problem)
    * Stress around the home
    * Irregular day-to-day schedule 

Using your parenting skills, you should be able to calm your child and make
things better. Getting your child on a regular eating, sleeping, and daily
schedule can also help.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

As a parent, you know your child's usual behavior. If your child is more
irritable than usual and cannot be comforted, contact your child's health care
provider.

Watch for and report other symptoms, such as:

    * Belly pain
    * Crying that persists
    * Fast breathing
    * Fever
    * Poor appetite
    * Racing heartbeat
    * Rash
    * Vomiting or diarrhea
    * Sweating 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your child's provider will work with you to learn why your child is irritable.
During the office visit, the provider will:

    * Ask questions and take a history
    * Examine your child
    * Order lab tests, if needed 

## Alternative Names

Inconsolability; Irritability

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Onigbanjo MT, Feigelman S. The first year. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 22.

Zhou D, Sequeira S, Driver D, Thomas S. Disruptive mood dysregulation
disorder. In: Driver D, Thomas SS, eds. _Complex Disorders in Pediatric
Psychiatry: A Clinician's Guide_. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 15.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

