Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003023.htm    
                                Description: Crying is an important way for infants to communicate. But, when a baby cries a lot, it may be a sign of something that needs treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Excessive crying in infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003023.htm

# Excessive crying in infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Crying is an important way for infants to communicate. But, when a baby cries
a lot, it may be a sign of something that needs treatment.

## Considerations

Infants normally cry about 1 to 3 hours a day. It is perfectly normal for an
infant to cry when hungry, thirsty, tired, lonely, or in pain. It is also
normal for a baby to have a fussy period in the evening.

But, if an infant cries too often, there might be a health problem that needs
attention.

## Causes

Infants may cry because of any of the following:

    * Boredom or loneliness
    * Colic
    * Discomfort or irritation from a wet or dirty diaper, excessive gas, or feeling cold
    * Hunger or thirst
    * Illness
    * Infection (a likely cause if the crying is accompanied by irritability, lethargy, poor appetite, or fever. You should call your baby's health care provider)
    * Medicines
    * Normal muscle jerks and twitches that disturb the sleep
    * Pain
    * Teething

## Home Care

Home care depends on the causes. Follow your provider's advice.

If the infant seems constantly hungry despite short, frequent feedings, talk
to your provider about normal growth and feeding times.

If crying is due to boredom or loneliness, it may be helpful to touch, hold,
and talk to the infant more and place the infant within sight. Place baby-safe
toys where the child can see them. If crying is due to sleep disturbance, wrap
the baby firmly in a blanket before putting the infant to bed.

For excessive crying in infants due to cold, dress the infant warmly or adjust
the temperature of the room. If adults are cold, the baby is also likely cold.

Always check for possible causes of pain or discomfort in a crying baby. When
cloth diapers are used, look for diaper pins that have become loose or loose
threads that have become tightly wrapped around fingers or toes. Diaper rashes
also can be uncomfortable.

Take your baby's temperature to check for fever. Check your baby head-to-toe
for any injuries. Pay particular attention to the fingers, toes, and
genitalia. It is not uncommon for a hair to get wrapped around part of your
baby, such as a toe, creating pain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if:

    * A baby's excessive crying remains unexplained and does not go away in 1 day, despite attempts at home treatment
    * The baby has other symptoms, such as fever, along with the excessive crying 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine your baby and ask about the child's medical history
and symptoms. Questions may include:

    * Is the child teething?
    * Is the child bored, lonely, hungry, thirsty?
    * Does the child seem to have a lot of gas?
    * What other symptoms does the child have? Such as, difficulty waking up, fever, irritability, poor appetite, or vomiting? 

The provider will check the infant's growth and development. Antibiotics may
be prescribed if the baby has a bacterial infection.

## Alternative Names

Infants - excessive crying; Well child - excessive crying

## Images

    * ![Crying - excessive \(0 to 6 months\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9464t.jpg)Crying - excessive (0 to 6 months)

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics, healthychildren.org website. Responding to
your baby's cries. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/crying-
colic/Pages/Responding-to-Your-Babys-Cries.aspx. Updated November 21, 2015.
Accessed November 20, 2018.

Pomeranz AJ, Sabnis S, Busey SL, Kliegman RM. Irritable infant (fussy or
excessively crying infant). In: Pomeranz AJ, Sabnis S, Busey SL, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Pediatric Decision-Making Strategies._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

