Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003309.htm    
                                Description: Sunken fontanelles are an obvious curving in of the &quot;soft spot&quot; in an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fontanelles - sunken

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003309.htm

# Fontanelles - sunken

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sunken fontanelles are an obvious curving in of the "soft spot" in an infant's
head.

## Considerations

The skull is made up of many bones. There areÂ 8 bones in the skull itself and
14 bones in the face area. They join together to form a solid, bony cavity
that protects and supports the brain. The areas where the bones join together
are called the sutures.

The bones are not joined together firmly at birth. This allows the head to
change shape to help it pass through the birth canal. The sutures gradually
gain minerals and harden, firmly joining the skull bones together. This
process is called ossification.

In an infant, the space where 2 sutures join forms a membrane-covered "soft
spot" called a fontanelle (fontanel). The fontanelles allow the brain and
skull to grow during an infant's first year.

There are normally several fontanelles on a newborn's skull. They are located
mainly at the top, back, and sides of the head. Like the sutures, fontanelles
harden over time and become closed, solid, bony areas.

    * The fontanelle in the back of the head (posterior fontanelle) most often closes by the time an infant is 1 or 2 months old.
    * The fontanelle at the top of the head (anterior fontanelle) most often closes within 7 to 19 months.

The fontanelles should feel firm and should curve inward slightly to the
touch. A noticeably sunken fontanelle is a sign that the infant does not have
enough fluid in their body.

## Causes

Reasons a child may have sunken fontanelles include:

    * Dehydration (not enough fluid in the body)
    * Malnutrition

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A sunken fontanelle can be a medical emergency. A health care provider should
check the infant right away.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about the child's
symptoms and medical history, such as:

    * When did you first notice that the fontanelle looked sunken?
    * How severe is it? How would you describe it?
    * Which "soft spots" are affected?
    * What other symptoms are present?
    * Has the baby been ill, especially with vomiting, diarrhea, or excessive sweating?
    * Is the skin turgor poor?
    * Is the baby thirsty?
    * Is the baby alert?
    * Are the baby's eyes dry?
    * Is the baby's mouth moist? 

Tests may include:

    * Blood chemistries
    * CBC
    * Urinalysis
    * Tests to check the baby's nutritional status 

You might be referred to a place that can provide intravenous (IV) fluids if
the sunken fontanelle is caused by dehydration.

## Alternative Names

Sunken fontanelles; Soft spot - sunken

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn
    * ![Sunken fontanelles \(superior view\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9336t.jpg)Sunken fontanelles (superior view)

## References

Goyal NK. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

Wright CJ, Posencheg MA, Seri I, Evans JR. Fluid, electrolyte, and acid-base
balance. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 30.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

