Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001409.htm    
                                Description: Spasmus nutans is a disorder affecting infants and young children. It involves rapid, uncontrolled eye movements, head bobbing, and sometimes, holding the neck in an abnormal position.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spasmus nutans

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001409.htm

# Spasmus nutans

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spasmus nutans is a disorder affecting infants and young children. It involves
rapid, uncontrolled eye movements, head bobbing, and sometimes, holding the
neck in an abnormal position.

## Causes

Most cases of spasmus nutans begin between age 4 months and 1 year. It usually
goes away by itself in several months or years.

The cause is unknown, although it may be associated with other medical
conditions. A link with iron or vitamin D deficiency has been suggested. In
very rare cases, symptoms similar to spasmus nutans may be due to certain
types of brain tumors or other serious conditions.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of spasmus nutans include:

    * Small, quick, side-to-side eye movements called nystagmus (both eyes are involved, but each eye may move differently)
    * Head nodding
    * Head tilting 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam of the child. The
parents will be asked about their child's symptoms.

Tests may include:

    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI scan of the head
    * Electroretinography, a test that measures the electrical response of the retina (the back part of the eye)

## Treatment

Spasmus nutans that isn't related to another medical problem, such as brain
tumor, requires no treatment. If the symptoms are caused by another condition,
the provider will recommend appropriate treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Usually, this disorder goes away on its own without treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your child's provider if your child has rapid,
movements of the eyes, or head nodding. The provider will need to perform an
exam to rule out other possible causes for the symptoms.

## References

Hertle RW, Hanna NN. Supranuclear eye movement disorders, acquired and
neurologic nystagmus. In: Lambert SR, Lyons CJ, eds. _Taylor and Hoyt's
Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 90.

Lavin PJM. Neuro-ophthalmology: ocular motor system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

