Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007618.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a problem in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells bring oxygen to body tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anemia caused by low iron - infants and toddlers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007618.htm

# Anemia caused by low iron - infants and toddlers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a problem in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells bring oxygen to body tissues.

Iron helps make red blood cells, so a lack of iron in the body may lead to
anemia. The medical name of this problem is iron deficiency anemia.

## Causes

Anemia caused by a low iron level is the most common form of anemia. The body
gets iron through certain foods. It also reuses iron from old red blood cells.

A diet that does not have enough iron is the most common cause. During periods
of rapid growth, even more iron is needed.

Babies are born with iron stored in their bodies. Because they grow rapidly,
infants and toddlers need to absorb a lot of iron each day. Iron deficiency
anemia most commonly affects babies 9 through 24 months old.

Breastfed babies need less iron because iron is absorbed better when it is in
breast milk. Formula with iron added (iron fortified) also provides enough
iron.

Infants younger than 12 months who drink cow's milk rather than breast milk or
iron-fortified formula are more likely to have anemia. Cow's milk leads to
anemia because it:

    * Has less iron
    * Causes small amounts of blood loss from the intestines
    * Makes it harder for the body to absorb iron 

Children older than 12 months who drink too much cow's milk may also have
anemia if they do not eat enough other healthy foods that have iron.

## Symptoms

Mild anemia may have no symptoms. As the iron level and blood counts become
lower, your infant or toddler may:

    * Act irritable
    * Become short of breath
    * Crave unusual foods (called pica)
    * Eat less food
    * Feel tired or weak all the time
    * Have a sore tongue
    * Have headaches or dizziness 

With more severe anemia, your child may have:

    * Blue-tinged or pale whites of eyes
    * Brittle nails
    * Pale skin color 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. All babies should have
a blood test to check for anemia. Blood tests that measure iron level in the
body include:

    * Hematocrit
    * Serum ferritin
    * Serum iron
    * Total iron binding capacity (TIBC)

A measurement called iron saturation (serum iron/TIBC) often can show whether
the child has enough iron in the body.

## Treatment

Since children only absorb a small amount of the iron they eat, most children
need to have 8 to 10 mg of iron per day.

DIET AND IRON

During the first year of life:

    * Do not give your baby cow's milk until age 1 year. Babies under age 1 year have a difficult time digesting cow's milk. Use either breast milk or formula fortified with iron.
    * After 6 months, your baby will start to need more iron in their diet. Start solid foods with iron-fortified baby cereal mixed with breast milk or formula.
    * Iron-rich pureed meats, fruits, and vegetables can also be started. 

After age 1 year, you may give your baby whole milk in place of breast milk or
formula.

Eating healthy foods is the most important way to prevent and treat iron
deficiency. Good sources of iron include:

    * Apricots
    * Chicken, turkey, fish, and other meats
    * Dried beans, lentils, and soybeans
    * Eggs
    * Liver
    * Molasses
    * Oatmeal
    * Peanut butter
    * Prune juice
    * Raisins and prunes
    * Spinach, kale and other greens 

IRON SUPPLEMENTS

If a healthy diet does not prevent or treat your child's low iron level and
anemia, the provider will likely recommend iron supplements for your child.
These are taken by mouth.

Do not give your child iron supplements or vitamins with iron without checking
with your child's provider. The provider will prescribe the right kind of
supplement for your child. If your child takes too much iron, it can cause
poisoning.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome is likely to be good. In most cases, the blood
counts will return to normal in 2 months. It is important that the provider
find the cause of your child's iron deficiency.

## Possible Complications

A low iron level can cause decreased attention span, reduced alertness and
learning problems in children.

A low iron level can cause the body to absorb too much lead.

## Prevention

Eating healthy foods is the most important way to prevent and treat iron
deficiency.

## Alternative Names

Anemia - iron deficiency - infants and toddlers

## References

Baker RD, Baker SS. Infant and toddler nutrition. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay
M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

Brandow AM. Pallor and anemia. In: Kliegman RM, Lye PS, Bordini BJ, Toth H,
Basel D, eds. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 37.

Sills R. Iron-deficiency anemia. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 455.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![Salud del niÃ±o
pequeÃ±o](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerHealth_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Health _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

