Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001193.htm    
                                Description: Neonatal hypothyroidism is decreased thyroid hormone production in a newborn. In very rare cases, no thyroid hormone is produced.Â The condition is also called congenital hypothyroidism. Congenital means    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neonatal hypothyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001193.htm

# Neonatal hypothyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neonatal hypothyroidism is decreased thyroid hormone production in a newborn.
In very rare cases, no thyroid hormone is produced.Â The condition is also
called congenital hypothyroidism. Congenital means present from birth.

## Causes

The thyroid gland is an important organ of the endocrine system. It is located
at the front of the neck, just above where the collarbones meet. The thyroid
makes hormones that control the way every cell in the body uses energy. This
process is called metabolism.

Hypothyroidism in the newborn may be caused by:

    * A missing or poorly developed thyroid gland
    * A pituitary gland that does not stimulate the thyroid gland
    * Thyroid hormones that are poorly formed or do not work
    * Medicines the mother took during pregnancy
    * Lack of iodine in the mother's diet during pregnancy
    * Antibodies made by the mother's body that block the baby's thyroid function

A thyroid gland that is not fully developed is the most common defect. Girls
are affected twice as often as boys.

## Symptoms

Most affected infants have few or no symptoms. This is because their thyroid
hormone level is only slightly low. Infants with severe hypothyroidism often
have a unique appearance, including:

    * Dull look 
    * Puffy face
    * Thick tongue that sticks out

This appearance often develops as the disease gets worse.

The child may also have:

    * Poor feeding, choking episodes
    * Constipation
    * Dry, brittle hair
    * Hoarse cry
    * Jaundice (skin and whites of the eyes look yellow)
    * Lack of muscle tone (floppy infant)
    * Low hairline
    * Short height
    * Sleepiness
    * Sluggishness

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam of the infant may show:

    * Decreased muscle tone
    * Slow growth
    * Hoarse-sounding cry or voice
    * Short arms and legs
    * Very large soft spots on the skull (fontanelles)
    * Wide hands with short fingers
    * Widely separated skull bones

Blood tests are done to check thyroid function. Other tests may include:

    * Thyroid ultrasound scan
    * X-ray of the long bones

## Treatment

Early diagnosis is very important. Most of the effects of hypothyroidism are
easy to reverse.Â For this reason, most US states require that all newborns be
screened for hypothyroidism.

Thyroxine is usually given to treat hypothyroidism. Once the child starts
taking this medicine, blood tests are regularly done to make sure thyroid
hormone levels are in a normal range.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Getting diagnosed early usually leads to a good outcome. Newborns diagnosed
and treated in the first month or so usually have normal intelligence.

Untreated mild hypothyroidism can lead to severe intellectual disability and
growth problems. The nervous system goes through important development during
the first few months after birth. Lack of thyroid hormones can cause damage
that cannot be reversed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You feel your infant shows signs or symptoms of hypothyroidism
    * You are pregnant and have been exposed to antithyroid drugs or procedures

## Prevention

If a pregnant woman takes radioactive iodine for thyroid cancer, the thyroid
gland may be destroyed in the developing fetus. Infants whose mothers have
taken such medicines should be observed carefully after birth for signs of
hypothyroidism.Â Also, pregnant women should not avoid iodine-supplemented
salt.

Most states require a routine screening test to check all newborns for
hypothyroidism.Â If your state does not have this requirement, ask your
provider if your newborn should be screened.

## Alternative Names

Cretinism; Congenital hypothyroidism

## References

Chuang J, Gutmark-Little I, Rose SR. Thyroid disorders in the neonate. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 97.

Wassner AJ, Smith JR. Hypothyroidism. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 581.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

