Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003301.htm    
                                Description: Frontal bossing is an unusually prominent forehead. It is sometimes associated with a heavier than normal brow ridge.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Frontal bossing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003301.htm

# Frontal bossing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Frontal bossing is an unusually prominent forehead. It is sometimes associated
with a heavier than normal brow ridge.

## Considerations

Frontal bossing is seen only in a few rare syndromes, including acromegaly, a
long-term (chronic) disorder caused by too much growth hormone, which leads to
enlargement of the bones of the face, jaw, hands, feet, and skull.

## Causes

Causes include:

    * Acromegaly
    * Basal cell nevus syndrome
    * Congenital syphilis
    * Cleidocranial dysostosis
    * Crouzon syndrome
    * Hurler syndrome
    * Pfeiffer syndrome
    * Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome
    * Russell-Silver syndrome (Russell-Silver dwarf)
    * Use of the antiseizure drug trimethadione during pregnancy 

## Home Care

There is no home care needed for frontal bossing. Home care for disorders
associated with frontal bossing varies with the specific disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you notice that your child's forehead looks overly prominent, talk to your
health care provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

An infant or child with frontal bossing generally has other symptoms and
signs. Taken together, these define a specific syndrome or condition. The
diagnosis is based on a family history, medical history, and thorough physical
evaluation.

Medical history questions documenting frontal bossing in detail may include:

    * When did you first notice the problem?
    * What other symptoms are present?
    * Have you noticed any other unusual physical characteristics?
    * Has a disorder been identified as the cause of the frontal bossing?
    * If so, what was the diagnosis? 

Lab studies may be ordered to confirm the presence of a suspected disorder.

## Images

    * ![Frontal bossing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17183t.jpg)Frontal bossing

## References

Herring JA. Skeletal dysplasias. In: Herring JA, ed. _Tachdjian's Pediatric
Orthopaedics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 40.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 591.

Sankaran S, Kyle P. Abnormalities of the face and neck. In: Coady AM, Bower S,
eds. _Twining's Textbook of Fetal Abnormalities_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 13.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

