Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007229.htm    
                                Description: Calcium is a mineral in the body. It is needed for strong bones and teeth. Calcium also helps the heart, nerves, muscles, and other body systems work well.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low calcium level - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007229.htm

# Low calcium level - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Calcium is a mineral in the body. It is needed for strong bones and teeth.
Calcium also helps the heart, nerves, muscles, and other body systems work
well.

A low blood calcium level is called hypocalcemia. This article discusses low
blood calcium level in infants.

## Causes

A healthy baby most often has very careful control of blood calcium level.

A low calcium level in the blood is more likely to occur in newborns, more
commonly in those who were born too early (preemies). Common causes of
hypocalcemia in a newborn include:

    * Certain medicines
    * Diabetes in the birth mother
    * Episodes of very low oxygen levels
    * Infection
    * Stress caused by serious illness 

There are also some rare illnesses that can lead to low calcium level. These
include:

    * DiGeorge syndrome, a genetic disorder.
    * The parathyroid glands help control calcium use and removal by the body. Rarely, a child is born with an underactive parathyroid glands. 

## Symptoms

Babies with hypocalcemia often have no symptoms. Sometimes, babies with low
calcium levels are jittery or have tremors or twitching. Rarely, they have
seizures.

These babies may also have a slow heart rate and low blood pressure.

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is most often made when a blood test shows that the infant's calcium
level is low.

## Treatment

The baby may get extra calcium, if needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Problems with low calcium level in newborns or premature infants most often do
not continue long-term.

## Alternative Names

Hypocalcemia - infants

## Images

    * ![Hypocalcemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21729t.jpg)Hypocalcemia

## References

Escobar O, Viswanathan P, Witchel SF. Pediatric endocrinology. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Electrolyte and acid-base
disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

