Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007487.htm    
                                Description: A clean catch is a method of collecting a urine sample to be tested. The clean-catch urine method is used to prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Clean catch urine sample

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007487.htm

# Clean catch urine sample

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A clean catch is a method of collecting a urine sample to be tested. The
clean-catch urine method is used to prevent germs from the penis or vagina
from getting into a urine sample.

## How the Test is Performed

If possible, collect the sample when urine has been in your bladder for 2 to 3
hours.

You will use a special kit to collect the urine. It will most likely have a
cup with a lid and wipes.

Wash your hands with soap and warm water.

GIRLS AND WOMEN

Girls and women need to wash the area between the vagina "lips" (labia). You
may be given a special clean-catch kit that contains sterile wipes.

    * Sit on the toilet with your legs spread apart. Use two fingers to spread open your labia.
    * Use the first wipe to clean the inner folds of the labia. Wipe from the front to the back.
    * Use a second wipe to clean over the opening where urine comes out (urethra), just above the opening of the vagina.

To collect the urine sample:

    * Keeping your labia spread open, urinate a small amount into the toilet bowl, then stop the flow of urine.
    * Hold the urine cup a few inches (or a few centimeters) from the urethra and urinate until the cup is about half full.
    * You may finish urinating into the toilet bowl.

BOYS AND MEN

Clean the head of the penis with a sterile wipe. If you are not circumcised,
you will need to pull back (retract) the foreskin first.

    * Urinate a small amount into the toilet bowl, and then stop the flow of urine.
    * Then collect a sample of urine into the clean or sterile cup, until it is half full.
    * You may finish urinating into the toilet bowl.

INFANTS

You will be given a special bag to collect the urine. It will be a plastic bag
with a sticky strip on one end, made to fit over your baby's genital area.

If the collection is being taken from an infant, you may need extra collection
bags.

Wash the area well with soap and water, and dry. Open and place the bag on
your infant.

    * For boys, the entire penis can be placed in the bag.
    * For girls, place the bag over the labia.

You can put on a diaper over the bag.

Check the baby often and remove the bag after the urine collects in it. Active
infants may displace the bag, so you may need to make more than one attempt.
Drain the urine into the container you were given and return it to the health
care provider as directed.

AFTER COLLECTING THE SAMPLE

Screw the lid tightly on the cup. Do not touch the inside of the cup or the
lid.

    * Return the sample to the provider.
    * If you are at home, place the cup in a plastic bag and put the bag in the refrigerator until you take it to the lab or your provider's office.

## Alternative Names

Urine culture - clean catch; Urinalysis - clean catch; Clean catch urine
specimen; Urine collection - clean catch; UTI - clean catch; Urinary tract
infection - clean catch; Cystitis - clean catch

## References

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

Nicolle LE, Norrby SR. Approach to the patient with urinary tract infection.
In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 284.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

