Link: https://medlineplus.gov/staphylococcalinfections.html    
                                Description: Staph infections are caused by bacteria that are commonly found on the skin or in the nose. Learn how to prevent and treat Staph infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Staphylococcal Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/staphylococcalinfections.html

#  Staphylococcal Infections

Also called: Staph

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are Staphylococcal (staph) infections?

Staphylococcus (staph) is a group of bacteria. There are more than 30 types. A
type called Staphylococcus aureus causes most infections.

Staph bacteria can cause many different types of infections, including

    * Skin infections, which are the most common types of staph infections
    * Bacteremia, an infection of the bloodstream. This can lead to sepsis, a very serious immune response to infection.
    * Bone infections
    * Endocarditis, an infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers and valves
    * Food poisoning
    * Pneumonia
    * Toxic shock syndrome (TSS), a life-threatening condition caused by toxins from certain types of bacteria

### What causes staph infections?

Some people carry staph bacteria on their skin or in their noses, but they do
not get an infection. But if they get a cut or wound, the bacteria can enter
the body and cause an infection.

Staph bacteria can spread from person to person. They can also spread on
objects, such as towels, clothing, door handles, athletic equipment, and
remotes. If you have staph and do not handle food properly when you are
preparing it, you can also spread staph to others.

### Who is at risk for staph infections?

Anyone can develop a staph infection, but certain people are at greater risk,
including those who

    * Have a chronic condition such as diabetes, cancer, vascular disease, eczema, and lung disease
    * Have a weakened immune system, such as from HIV/AIDS, medicines to prevent organ rejection, or chemotherapy
    * Had surgery
    * Use a catheter, breathing tube, or feeding tube
    * Are on dialysis
    * Inject illegal drugs
    * Do contact sports, since you may have skin-to-skin contact with others or share equipment

### What are the symptoms of staph infections?

The symptoms of a staph infection depend on the type of infection:

    * Skin infections can look like pimples or boils. They may be red, swollen, and painful. Sometimes there is pus or other drainage. They can turn into impetigo, which turns into a crust on the skin, or cellulitis, a swollen, red area of skin that feels hot.
    * Bone infections can cause pain, swelling, warmth, and redness in the infected area. You may also have chills and a fever.
    * Endocarditis causes some flu-like symptoms: fever, chills, and fatigue. It also causes symptoms such as rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, and fluid buildup in your arms or legs.
    * Food poisoning typically causes nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, and a fever. If you lose too many fluids, you may also become dehydrated. 
    * Pneumonia symptoms include a high fever, chills, and cough that doesn't get better. You may also have chest pain and shortness of breath.
    * Toxic shock syndrome (TSS) causes high fever, sudden low blood pressure, vomiting, diarrhea, and confusion. You may have a sunburn-like rash somewhere on your body. TSS can lead to organ failure.

### How are staph infections diagnosed?

Your health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms.
Often, providers can tell if you have a staph skin infection by looking at it.
To check for other types of staph infections, providers may do a culture, with
a skin scraping, tissue sample, stool sample, or throat or nasal swabs. There
may be other tests, such as imaging tests, depending on the type of infection.

### What are the treatments for staph infections?

Treatment for staph infections is antibiotics. Depending on the type of
infection, you may get a cream, ointment, medicines (to swallow), or
intravenous (IV). If you have an infected wound, your provider might drain it.
Sometimes you may need surgery for bone infections.

Some staph infections, such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus), are resistant to many antibiotics. There are still certain
antibiotics that can treat these infections.

### Can staph infections be prevented?

Certain steps can help to prevent staph infections:

    * Use good hygiene, including washing your hands often
    * Don't share towels, sheets, or clothing with someone who has a staph infection
    * It's best not to share athletic equipment. If you do need to share, make sure that it properly cleaned and dried before you use it.
    * Practice food safety, including not preparing food for others when you have a staph infection
    * If you have a cut or wound, keep it covered

## Start Here

    * Staph Infections (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Staph Infections (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Seasonal Flu and Staph Infection (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Boils and Carbuncles (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Toxic Shock Syndrome (American Academy of Family Physicians)
    * Toxic Shock Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * VISA/VRSA (Vancomycin-Intermediate/Resistant Staphylococcus aureus) in Healthcare Settings (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Images

    * Boils (Furunculosis) (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Staphylococcal Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effect of Vancomycin or Daptomycin With vs Without an Antistaphylococcal Î²-Lactam...
    * Article: Staphylococci: Evolving Genomes.
    * Article: Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus in Seafood: Prevalence, Laboratory Detection, Clonal Nature, and...
    * Staphylococcal Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Staphylococcal Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Toxic Shock Syndrome (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Staphylococcus aureus and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Boils (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carbuncle (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Scalded skin syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Staph infections -- self-care at home (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Toxic shock syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tracheitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Boils
    * Carbuncle
    * Nasopharyngeal culture
    * Nikolsky sign
    * Scalded skin syndrome
    * Staph infections -- self-care at home
    * Toxic shock syndrome
    * Tracheitis

## Related Health Topics

    * Cellulitis
    * Impetigo
    * MRSA

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Staphylococcal Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

