Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003139.htm    
                                Description: The usual color of urine is straw-yellow. Abnormally colored urine may be cloudy, dark, or blood-colored.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine - abnormal color

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003139.htm

# Urine - abnormal color

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The usual color of urine is straw-yellow. Abnormally colored urine may be
cloudy, dark, or blood-colored.

## Causes

Abnormal urine color may be caused by infection, disease, medicines, or food
you eat.

Cloudy or milky urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection, which may also
cause a bad smell. Milky urine may also be caused by bacteria, crystals, fat,
white or red blood cells, or mucus in the urine.

Dark brown but clear urine is a sign of a liver disorder such as acute viral
hepatitis or cirrhosis, which causes excess bilirubin in the urine. It can
also indicate severe dehydration or a condition involving the breakdown of
muscle tissue known as rhabdomyolysis.

Pink, red, or lighter brown urine can be caused by:

    * Beets, blackberries, or certain food colorings
    * Hemolytic anemia
    * Injury to the kidneys or urinary tract
    * Medicine
    * Porphyria
    * Urinary tract disorders that cause bleeding
    * Blood from vaginal bleeding
    * Tumor in the bladder or kidneys 

Dark yellow or orange urine can be caused by:

    * B complex vitamins or carotene
    * Medicines such as phenazopyridine (used to treat urinary tract infections), rifampin, and warfarin
    * Recent laxative use 

Green or blue urine is due to:

    * Artificial colors in foods or drugs
    * Bilirubin
    * Medicines, including methylene blue
    * Urinary tract infections 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider if you have:

    * Abnormal urine color that cannot be explained and does not go away
    * Blood in your urine, even once
    * Clear, dark-brown urine
    * Pink, red, or smoky-brown urine that is not due to a food or drug 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. This may include a rectal or pelvic
exam. The provider will ask you questions about your symptoms such as:

    * When did you first notice a change in urine color and how long have you had the problem?
    * What color is your urine and does the color change during the day? Do you see blood in the urine?
    * Are there things that make the problem worse?
    * What types of foods have you been eating and what medicines do you take?
    * Have you had urinary or kidney problems in the past?
    * Are you having any other symptoms (such as pain, fever, or increase in thirst)?
    * Is there a family history of kidney or bladder cancers?
    * Do you smoke or are you exposed to significant second hand tobacco?
    * Do you work with certain chemicals such as dyes?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests, including liver function tests
    * Ultrasound of kidneys and bladder or CT scan
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture for infection 
    * Cystoscopy
    * Urine cytology

## Alternative Names

Discoloration of urine

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient: history, physical
examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

