Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003587.htm    
                                Description: Urine specific gravity is a laboratory test that shows the concentration of all chemical particles in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine specific gravity test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003587.htm

# Urine specific gravity test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine specific gravity is a laboratory test that shows the concentration of
all chemical particles in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested right away. The health care
provider uses a dipstick made with a color-sensitive pad. The color the
dipstick changes to will tell the provider the specific gravity of your urine.
The dipstick test gives only a rough result. For a more accurate result, your
provider may send your urine sample to a lab.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you that you need to limit your fluid intake 12 to 14
hours before the test.

Your provider will ask you to temporarily stop taking any medicines that may
affect the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines
you take, including dextran and sucrose. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
before talking to your provider.

Other things can also affect the test results. Tell your provider if you
recently:

    * Had any type of anesthesia for an operation.
    * Received intravenous dye (contrast medium) for an imaging test, such as a CT or MRI scan.
    * Used herbs or natural remedies, especially Chinese herbs.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test helps evaluate your body's water balance and urine concentration.

## Normal Results

Urine osmolality is a more specific test for urine concentration. The urine
specific gravity test is easier and more convenient, and is usually part of a
routine urinalysis. The urine osmolality test may not be needed.

The normal range for urine specific gravity is 1.005 to 1.030. Normal value
ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use different
measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about the
meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased urine specific gravity may be due to conditions such as:

    * Adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones (Addison disease)
    * Heart failure
    * High sodium level in the blood
    * Loss of body fluids (dehydration)
    * Narrowing of the kidney artery (renal artery stenosis)
    * Shock
    * Sugar (glucose) in the urine
    * Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH)

Decreased urine specific gravity may be due to:

    * Damage to kidney tubule cells (renal tubular necrosis)
    * Diabetes insipidus
    * Drinking too much fluid
    * Kidney failure
    * Low sodium level in the blood
    * Severe kidney infection (pyelonephritis) 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine density

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Krishnan A, Levin A. Laboratory assessment of kidney disease: glomerular
filtration rate, urinalysis, and proteinuria. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx
VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 23.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of the urine. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Villeneuve P-M, Bagshaw SM. Assessment of urine biochemistry. In: Ronco C,
Bellomo R, Kellum JA, Ricci Z, eds. _Critical Care Nephrology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

