Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003579.htm    
                                Description: Urinalysis is the physical, chemical, and microscopic examination of urine. It involves a number of tests to detect and measure various compounds that pass through the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinalysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003579.htm

# Urinalysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urinalysis is the physical, chemical, and microscopic examination of urine. It
involves a number of tests to detect and measure various compounds that pass
through the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A urine sample is needed. Your health care provider will tell you what type of
urine sample is needed. Two common methods of collecting urine are 24-hour
urine collection and clean catch urine specimen.

The sample is sent to a lab, where it is examined for the following:

PHYSICAL COLOR AND APPEARANCE

How the urine sample looks to the naked eye:

    * Is it clear or cloudy?
    * Is it pale, or dark yellow, or another color? 

MICROSCOPIC APPEARANCE

The urine sample is examined under a microscope to:

    * Check if there are any cells, urine crystals, urinary casts, mucus, and other substances.
    * Identify any bacteria or other germs. 

CHEMICAL APPEARANCE (urine chemistry)

    * A special strip (dipstick) is used to test for substances in the urine sample. The strip has pads of chemicals that change color when they come in contact with substances of interest. 

Examples of specific urinalysis tests that may be done to check for problems
include:

    * Red blood cell urine test
    * Glucose urine test
    * Protein urine test
    * Urine pH level test
    * Ketones urine test
    * Bilirubin urine test
    * Urine specific gravity test

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines change the color of urine, but this is not a sign of
disease. Your provider may tell you to stop taking any medicines that can
affect test results.

Medicines that can change your urine color include:

    * Chloroquine
    * Iron supplements
    * Levodopa
    * Nitrofurantoin
    * Phenazopyridine
    * Phenothiazine
    * Phenytoin
    * Riboflavin
    * Triamterene 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

A urinalysis may be done:

    * As part of a routine medical exam to screen for early signs of disease
    * If you have signs of diabetes or kidney disease, or to monitor you if you are being treated for these conditions
    * To check for blood in the urine
    * To diagnose a urinary tract infection

## Normal Results

Normal urine varies in color from almost colorless to dark yellow. Some foods,
such as beets and blackberries, may turn urine red.

Usually, glucose, ketones, protein, and bilirubin are not detectable in urine.
The following are not normally found in urine:

    * Hemoglobin
    * Nitrites
    * Red blood cells
    * White blood cells 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean you have an illness, such as:

    * Urinary tract infection
    * Kidney stones
    * Poorly controlled diabetes 
    * Bladder or kidney cancer

Your provider can discuss the results with you.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Considerations

If a home test is used, the person reading the results must be able to tell
the difference between colors, because the results are interpreted using a
color chart.

## Alternative Names

Urine appearance and color; Routine urine test; Cystitis - urinalysis; Bladder
infection - urinalysis; UTI - urinalysis; Urinary tract infection -
urinalysis; Hematuria - urinalysis

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Urinalysis (UA) - urine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1146-1148.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

