Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003617.htm    
                                Description: Leucine aminopeptidase is a type of protein called an enzyme. It is normally found in liver cells and cells of the small intestine. This test is used to measure how much of this protein appears in your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leucine aminopeptidase - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003617.htm

# Leucine aminopeptidase - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leucine aminopeptidase is a type of protein called an enzyme. It is normally
found in liver cells and cells of the small intestine. This test is used to
measure how much of this protein appears in your urine.

Your blood can also be checked for this protein.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed.

    * On day 1, urinate into the toilet when you get up in the morning.
    * Afterward, collect all urine in a special container for the next 24 hours.
    * On day 2, urinate into the container when you get up in the morning.
    * Cap the container. Keep it in the refrigerator or a cool place during the collection period.

Label the container with your name, the date, the time of completion, and
return it as instructed.

For an infant, thoroughly wash the area where urine exits the body.

    * Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).
    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the labia.
    * Diaper as usual over the secured bag.

This procedure may take more than one try. An active infant can move the bag,
so that the urine leaks into the diaper.

Check the infant often and change the bag after the infant has urinated into
it.

Drain the urine from the bag into the container given to you by your health
care provider. Deliver the sample to the laboratory or your provider as soon
as possible.

Your provider will tell you, if needed, to stop taking drugs that may
interfere with the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you to stop taking any medicines that could affect the
test. Drugs that can affect the results of this test include estrogen and
progesterone. Never stop taking any medicine without first talking to your
provider.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test to see if there is liver damage. It may also be done to
check for certain tumors.

This test is only rarely done. Other tests such as gamma glutamyl
transpeptidase are more accurate and easily available.

## Normal Results

Normal values range from 2 to 18 units per 24 hours.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased levels of leucine aminopeptidase can be seen in several conditions:

    * Cholestasis
    * Cirrhosis
    * Hepatitis
    * Liver cancer
    * Liver ischemia (reduced blood flow to the liver)
    * Liver necrosis (death of live tissue)
    * Liver tumor
    * Pregnancy (late stage)

## Risks

There is no real risk.

## Images

    * ![Cirrhosis of the liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8849t.jpg)Cirrhosis of the liver
    * ![Leucine aminopeptidase urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9501t.jpg)Leucine aminopeptidase urine test

## References

Berk PD, Korenblatt KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal
liver tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Trypsin- plasma or serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1126.

Pratt DS. Liver chemistry and function tests. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

## Review Date 1/1/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

