Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001029.htm    
                                Description: Retinitis pigmentosa is an eye disease in which there is damage to the retina. The retina is the layer of tissue at the back of the inner eye. This layer converts light images to nerve signals and sends    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinitis pigmentosa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001029.htm

# Retinitis pigmentosa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinitis pigmentosa is an eye disease in which there is damage to the retina.
The retina is the layer of tissue at the back of the inner eye. This layer
converts light images to nerve signals and sends them to the brain.

## Causes

Retinitis pigmentosa can run in families. The disorder can be caused by
several genetic defects.

The cells controlling night vision (rods) are most likely to be affected.
However, in some cases, retinal cone cells are damaged the most. The main sign
of the disease is the presence of dark deposits in the retina.

The main risk factor is a family history of retinitis pigmentosa. It is a rare
condition affecting about 1 in 4,000 people in the United States.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often first appear in childhood. However, severe vision problems do
not often develop before early adulthood.

    * Decreased vision at night or in low light. Early signs may include having a harder time moving around in the dark.
    * Loss of side (peripheral) vision, causing "tunnel vision."
    * Loss of central vision (in advanced cases). This will affect the ability to read.

## Exams and Tests

Tests to evaluate the retina:

    * Color vision
    * Exam of the retina by ophthalmoscopy after the pupils have been dilated
    * Fluorescein angiography
    * Intraocular pressure
    * Measurement of the electrical activity in the retina (electroretinogram)
    * Pupil reflex response
    * Refraction test
    * Retinal photography
    * Side vision test (visual field test)
    * Slit lamp examination
    * Visual acuity

## Treatment

There is no effective treatment for this condition. Wearing sunglasses to
protect the retina from ultraviolet light may help preserve vision.

Some studies suggest that treatment with antioxidants (such as high doses of
vitamin A palmitate) may slow the disease. However, taking high doses of
vitamin A can cause serious liver problems. The benefit of treatment has to be
weighed against risks to the liver.

Clinical trials are in progress to assess new treatments for retinitis
pigmentosa, including the use of DHA, which is an omega-3 fatty acid.

Other treatments, such as microchip implants into the retina that act like a
microscopic video camera, are in the early stages of development. These
treatments may be useful for treating blindness associated with RP and other
serious eye conditions.

A vision specialist can help you adapt to vision loss. Make regular visits to
an eye care specialist, who can detect cataracts or retinal swelling. Both of
these problems can be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder will continue to progress slowly. Complete blindness is uncommon.

## Possible Complications

Peripheral and central loss of vision will occur over time.

People with retinitis pigmentosa often develop cataracts at an early age. They
may also develop swelling of the retina (macular edema). Cataracts can be
removed if they contribute to vision loss.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you have problems with night vision or
you develop other symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling and testing may help determine whether your children are at
risk for this disease.

## Alternative Names

RP; Vision loss - RP; Night vision loss - RP; Rod Cone dystrophy; Peripheral
vision loss - RP; Night blindness

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam

## References

Cukras CA, Zein WM, Caruso RC, Sieving PA. Progressive and 'stationary'
inherited retinal degenerations. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 6.13.

Gregory-Evans K, Weleber RG, Pennesi ME. Retinitis pigmentosa and allied
disorders. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P,
eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 42.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
the retina and vitreous. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 630.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![Usher Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UsherSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Usher
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

