Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000715.htm    
                                Description: Uterine fibroids are tumors that grow in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with uterine fibroids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000715.htm

# Living with uterine fibroids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uterine fibroids are tumors that grow in a woman's womb (uterus). These
growths are not cancerous.

No one knows exactly what causes fibroids.

You may have seen your health care provider for uterine fibroids. They can
cause:

    * Heavy menstrual bleeding and long periods
    * Bleeding between periods
    * Painful periods
    * An urge to urinate more often
    * Feeling fullness or pressure in your lower belly
    * Pain during intercourse 

Many women with fibroids have no symptoms. If you have symptoms, you may
receive medicines or sometimes surgery. There are also certain things you can
do to help relieve fibroid pain.

## Medicines to Treat Uterine Fibroids

Your provider may prescribe different types of hormone therapy to help control
extra bleeding. This may include birth control pills or injections. Be sure to
follow provider's directions for taking these medicines. DO NOT stop taking
them without talking to your provider first. Be sure to tell your provider
about any side effects you have.

Over-the-counter pain relievers can reduce the pain of uterine fibroids. These
include:

    * Ibuprofen (Advil)
    * Naproxen (Aleve)
    * Acetaminophen (Tylenol) 

To help ease painful periods, try starting these medicines 1 to 2 days before
your period begins.

You may be receiving hormone therapy to prevent the endometriosis from
becoming worse. Ask your doctor about side effects, including:

    * Birth control pills to help with heavy periods.
    * Intrauterine devices (IUDs) that release hormones to help reduce heavy bleeding and pain.
    * Medicines that cause a menopause-like state. Side effects include hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and mood changes. 

Iron supplements may be prescribed to prevent or treat anemia due to heavy
periods. Constipation and diarrhea are very common with these supplements. If
constipation becomes a problem, take a stool softener such as docusate sodium
(Colace).

## Self-care

Learning how to manage your symptoms can make it easier to live with fibroids.

Apply a hot water bottle or heating pad on your lower stomach. This can get
blood flowing and relax your muscles. Warm baths also may help relieve pain.

Lie down and rest. Place a pillow under your knees when lying on your back. If
you prefer to lie on your side, pull your knees up toward your chest. These
positions help take the pressure off your back.

Get regular exercise. Exercise helps improve blood flow. It also triggers your
body's natural painkillers, called endorphins.

Eat a balanced, healthy diet. Maintaining a healthy weight will help improve
your overall health. Eating plenty of fiber can help keep you regular so you
do not have to strain during bowel movements.

Techniques to relax and help relieve pain include:

    * Muscle relaxation
    * Deep breathing
    * Visualization
    * Biofeedback
    * Yoga 

Some women find that acupuncture helps ease painful periods.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Heavy bleeding
    * Increased cramping
    * Bleeding between periods
    * Fullness or heaviness in your lower belly area 

If self-care for pain does not help, talk with your provider about other
treatment options.

## Alternative Names

Leiomyoma - living with fibroids; Fibromyoma - living with fibroids; Myoma -
living with fibroids; Vaginal bleeding - living with fibroids; Uterine
bleeding - living with fibroids; Pelvic pain - living with fibroids

## References

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Moravek MB, Bulun SE. Uterine fibroids. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Krester DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 131.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Uterine Fibroids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

