Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000161.htm    
                                Description: Uterine artery embolization (UAE) is a procedure to treat fibroids without surgery. Uterine fibroids are noncancerous (benign) tumors that develop in the uterus (womb). This article tells you what you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uterine artery embolization - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000161.htm

# Uterine artery embolization - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uterine artery embolization (UAE) is a procedure to treat fibroids without
surgery. Uterine fibroids are noncancerous (benign) tumors that develop in the
uterus (womb). This article tells you what you need to take care of yourself
after the procedure.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had uterine artery embolization (UAE). UAE is a procedure to treat
fibroids using radiology instead of surgery. During the procedure, the blood
supply of the fibroids was blocked. This caused them to shrink. The procedure
took about 1 to 3 hours.

You were given a sedative and local pain medicine (anesthetic). An
interventional radiologist made a 1/4-inch (0.64 centimeters)-long cut in your
skin over your groin. A catheter (a thin tube) was put into the femoral artery
at the top of your leg. The radiologist then threaded the catheter into the
artery that supplies blood to your uterus (uterine artery).

Small plastic or gelatin particles were injected into the blood vessels that
carry blood to the fibroids. These particles block the blood supply to the
fibroids. Without this blood supply, the fibroids will shrink and then die.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have a low-grade fever and symptoms for about a week after the
procedure. A small bruise where the catheter was inserted is also normal. You
may also have moderate to strong cramping pain for 1 to 2 weeks after the
procedure. Your health care provider will give you a prescription for pain
medicine.

Most women need 1 to 2 weeks to recover after UAE before returning to work. It
may take 2 to 3 months for your fibroids to shrink enough for symptoms to
decrease and your menstrual cycle return to normal. The fibroids may continue
to shrink during the next year.

## Self-care

Take it easy when you return home.

    * Move around slowly, only for brief periods when you first get home.
    * Avoid strenuous activity like housework, yard work, and lifting children for at least 2 days. You should be able to return to your normal, light activities in 1 week.
    * Ask your provider how long you should wait before having sexual activity. It may be about a month.
    * DO NOT drive for 24 hours after you get home. 

Try using warm compresses or a heating pad for pelvic pain. Take your pain
medicine the way your provider told you. Make sure you have a good supply of
sanitary pads at home. Ask your provider how long you should avoid using
tampons or douching.

You may resume a normal, healthy diet when you get home.

    * Drink 8 to 10 cups (2 to 2.5 liters) of water or unsweetened juice a day.
    * Try eating foods that contain a lot of iron while you are bleeding.
    * Eat high-fiber foods to avoid getting constipated. Your pain medicine and being inactive can cause constipation. 

## Bathing

You may take showers when you get home.

DO NOT take tub baths, soak in a hot tub, or go swimming for 5 days.

## Follow-up

Follow up with your provider to schedule pelvic ultrasounds and exams.

## When to Call Your Health Care Provider

Call your provider if you have:

    * Severe pain that your pain medicine is not controlling
    * Fever higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Bleeding where the catheter was inserted
    * Any unusual pain where the catheter was inserted or in the leg where the catheter was placed
    * Changes in color or temperature of either leg

## Alternative Names

Uterine fibroid embolization - discharge; UFE - discharge; UAE - discharge

## References

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Spies JB, Czeyda-Pommersheim F. Uterine fibroid embolization. In: Mauro MA,
Murphy KPJ, Thomson KR, Venbrux AC, Morgan RA, eds. _Image-Guided
Interventions_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 76.

Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C. Interventional genitourinary radiology. In:
Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C, eds. _Genitourinary Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

## Read More

    * Hysterectomy
    * Uterine artery embolization
    * Uterine fibroids

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Uterine Fibroids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

