Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007384.htm    
                                Description: Uterine artery embolization (UAE) is a procedure to treat fibroids without surgery. Uterine fibroids are noncancerous (benign) tumors that develop in the uterus (womb).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uterine artery embolization

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007384.htm

# Uterine artery embolization

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uterine artery embolization (UAE) is a procedure to treat fibroids without
surgery. Uterine fibroids are noncancerous (benign) tumors that develop in the
uterus (womb).

During the procedure, the blood supply to the fibroids is cut off. This
typically causes the fibroids to shrink.

## Description

UAE is done by a doctor called an interventional radiologist.

You will be awake, but you will not feel pain. This is called conscious
sedation. The procedure takes about 1 to 3 hours.

The procedure is usually done this way:

    * You receive a sedative. This is medicine that makes you relaxed and sleepy.
    * A local painkiller (anesthetic) is applied to the skin around your groin. This numbs the area so you do notÂ feel pain.
    * The radiologist makes a tiny cut (incision) in your skin. A thin tube (catheter) is inserted into your femoral artery. This artery is at the top of your leg.
    * The radiologist threads the catheter into your uterine artery. This artery supplies blood to the uterus.
    * Small plastic or gelatin particles are injected through the catheter into the blood vessels that supply blood to the fibroids. These particles block the blood supply to the tiny arteries that carry blood to the fibroids. Without this blood supply, the fibroids shrink and die.
    * UAE is done in both your left and right uterine arteries through the same incision. If needed, more than 1 fibroid is treated.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

UAE is an effective way to treat symptoms caused by some types of fibroids.
Discuss with your health care provider whether this procedure is likely to be
successful for you.

Women who have UAE may:

    * Have symptoms including bleeding, low blood count, pelvic pain or pressure, waking up at night to urinate, and constipation
    * Have already tried medicines or hormones to reduce symptoms
    * Sometimes have UAE after childbirth to treat very heavy vaginal bleeding 

## Risks

UAE is generally safe.

Risks of any invasive procedure are:

    * Bleeding
    * A bad reaction to the anesthetic or medicine that is used
    * Infection
    * Bruising

Risks of UAE are:

    * Injury to an artery or to the uterus.
    * Failure to shrink the fibroids or effectively treat the symptoms.
    * Possible problems with a future pregnancy. Women who want to become pregnant should carefully discuss this procedure with their provider, since it may reduce the chances of a successful pregnancy.
    * Lack of menstrual periods.
    * Problems with ovarian function or premature menopause.
    * Failure to diagnose and remove a rare type of cancer that can grow in fibroids (leiomyosarcoma). Most fibroids are noncancerous (benign), but leiomyosarcomas occur in a small number of fibroids. Embolization will not treat or diagnose this condition and can lead to delayed diagnosis, and possibly a worse outcome once it is treated.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider:

    * If you could be pregnant, or you plan to become pregnant in the future
    * What medicines you are taking, including medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

Before UAE:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your doctor which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Your provider can give you advice and information to help you quit. 

On the day of UAE:

    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 8 hours before this procedure.
    * Take the medicines your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive on time at the hospital as instructed. 

## After the Procedure

You may stay in the hospital overnight. Or you may go home the same day.

You will receive pain medicine. You will be instructed to lie flat for 4 to 6
hours after the procedure.

Follow any other instructions about taking care of yourself after you go home.

Moderate to severe abdominal and pelvic cramps are common for the first 24
hours after the procedure. They may last for a few days to 2 weeks. Cramps may
be severe and may last more than 6 hours at a time.

Most women recover quickly and are able to return to normal activities within
7 to 10 days. Sometimes portions of the treated fibroid tissue may pass
through your vagina.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

UAE works well to decrease pain, pressure, and bleeding from fibroids in most
women who have the procedure.

UAE is less invasive than surgical treatments for uterine fibroids. Many women
may return more quickly to activities than after surgery.

Most studies show that some women require additional procedures to completely
treat their symptoms. These procedures include hysterectomy (surgery to remove
the uterus), myomectomy (surgery to remove the fibroid) or repeating the UAE.

## Alternative Names

Uterine fibroid embolization; UFE; UAE

## Patient Instructions

    * Uterine artery embolization - discharge 

## References

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Moravek MB, Bulun SE. Uterine fibroids. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 131.

Spies JB, Czeyda-Pommersheim F. Uterine fibroid emboloization. In: Mauro MA,
Murphy KPJ, Thomson KR, Venbrux AC, Morgan RA, eds. _Image-Guided
Interventions_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 76.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Fibroids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineFibroids2_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Fibroids _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

