Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000914.htm    
                                Description: Uterine fibroids are tumors that grow in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uterine fibroids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000914.htm

# Uterine fibroids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uterine fibroids are tumors that grow in a woman's womb (uterus). These
growths are typically not cancerous (benign).

![Fibroid tumors](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17064.jpg)

## Causes

Uterine fibroids are common. As many as one in five women may have fibroids
during their childbearing years. Half of all women have fibroids by age 50.

Fibroids are rare in women under age 20. They are more common in African-
Americans than White, Hispanic, or Asian women.

No one knows exactly what causes fibroids. They are thought to be caused by:

    * Hormones in the body
    * Genes (may run in families) 

Fibroids can be so tiny that you need a microscope to see them. They can also
grow very large. They may fill the entire uterus and may weigh several pounds
or kilograms. Although it is possible for just one fibroid to develop, most
often there is more than one.

Fibroids can grow:

    * In the muscle wall of the uterus (myometrial)
    * Just under the surface of the uterine lining (submucosal)
    * Just under the outside lining of the uterus (subserosal)
    * On a long stalk on the outside the uterus or inside the uterus (pedunculated) 

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of uterine fibroids are:

    * Bleeding between periods
    * Heavy bleeding during your period, sometimes with blood clots
    * Periods that may last longer than normal
    * Needing to urinate more often
    * Pelvic cramping or pain with periods
    * Feeling fullness or pressure in your lower belly
    * Pain during intercourse 

Often, you can have fibroids and not have any symptoms. Your health care
provider may find them during a physical exam or other test. Fibroids often
shrink and cause no symptoms in women who have gone through menopause. A
recent study also showed that some small fibroids shrink in premenopausal
women.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will perform a pelvic exam. This may show that you have a change
in the shape of your womb.

Fibroids are not always easy to diagnose. Being obese may make fibroids harder
to detect. You may need these tests to look for fibroids:

    * Ultrasound uses sound waves to create a picture of the uterus.
    * MRI uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create a picture.
    * Saline infusion sonogram (hysterosonography) -- Saline is injected into the uterus to make it easier to see the uterus using ultrasound.
    * Hysteroscopy uses a long, thin tube inserted through the vagina and into the uterus to examine the inside of the uterus.
    * Endometrial biopsy removes a small piece of the lining of the uterus to check for cancer if you have unusual bleeding. 
![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1109.jpg)

## Treatment

What type of treatment you have depends on:

    * Your age
    * Your general health
    * Your symptoms
    * Type of fibroids
    * If you are pregnant
    * If you want children in the future 

Treatment for the symptoms of fibroids may include:

    * Intrauterine devices (IUDs) that release hormones to help reduce heavy bleeding and pain.
    * Tranexamic acid to reduce the amount of blood flow.
    * Iron supplements to prevent or treat anemia due to heavy periods.
    * Pain relievers such as ibuprofen or naproxen for cramps or pain.
    * Watchful waiting -- You may have pelvic exams or ultrasounds every once in a while to check the fibroid's growth.

Medical or hormonal therapies that may help shrink fibroids include:  

    * Birth control pills to help control heavy periods.
    * A type of IUD that releases a low dose of the hormone progestin into the uterus each day.
    * Hormone shots to help shrink fibroids by stopping ovulation. Most often, this therapy is used only for a short time to shrink fibroids before surgery. They can also be used longer when small amounts of estrogen hormone are added back in to reduce side effects.

Surgery and procedures used to treat fibroids include:

    * Hysteroscopy \-- This procedure can remove fibroids growing inside the uterus.
    * Endometrial ablation \- This procedure is sometimes used to treat heavy bleeding associated with fibroids. It works best when the fibroids are small in size. It often stops menstruation completely.
    * Uterine artery embolization \-- This procedure stops the blood supply to the fibroid, causing it to shrink and die. This may be a good option if you wish to avoid surgery and are not planning to become pregnant.
    * Myomectomy -- This surgery removes the fibroids from the uterus. This also may be a good choice if you want to have children. It will not prevent new fibroids from growing.
    * Hysterectomy \-- This surgery removes the uterus completely. It may be an option if you do not want children, medicines do not work, and you cannot have any other procedures. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If you have fibroids without symptoms, you may not need treatment.

If you have fibroids, they may grow if you become pregnant. This is due to the
increased blood flow and higher estrogen levels. The fibroids usually return
to their original size after your baby is born.

## Possible Complications

Complications of fibroids include:

    * Severe pain or very heavy bleeding that needs emergency surgery.
    * Twisting of the fibroid -- This can cause blocked blood vessels that feed the tumor. You may need surgery if this happens.
    * Anemia (not having enough red blood cells) from heavy bleeding.
    * Urinary tract infections -- If the fibroid presses on the bladder, it can be hard to empty your bladder completely.
    * Infertility, in rare cases.

If you are pregnant, there's a small risk that fibroids may cause
complications:

    * You may deliver your baby early because there is not enough room in your womb.
    * If the fibroid blocks the birth canal or puts the baby in a dangerous position, you may need to have a cesarean section (C-section).
    * You may have heavy bleeding right after giving birth.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Heavy bleeding, increased cramping, or bleeding between periods
    * Fullness or heaviness in your lower belly area

## Alternative Names

Leiomyoma; Fibromyoma; Myoma; Fibroids; Uterine bleeding - fibroids; Vaginal
bleeding - fibroids

## Patient Instructions

    * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
    * Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge
    * Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge 
    * Uterine artery embolization - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Fibroid tumors](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17064t.jpg)Fibroid tumors
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Moravek MB, Bulun SE. Uterine fibroids. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 131.

Patel NR, Huynh TQ. Uterine fibroids. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:1434-1436.

Spies JB. Current role of uterine artery embolization in the management of
uterine fibroids. _Clin Obstet Gynecol_. 2016;59(1):93-102. PMID: 26630074
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26630074.

Stewart EA. Clinical practice. Uterine fibroids. _N Engl J Med_.
2015;372(17):1646-1655. PMID: 25901428 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25901428.

## Review Date 2/13/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
09/28/2018.

![Uterine
Fibroids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineFibroids2_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Fibroids _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

