Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007655.htm    
                                Description: Uterine sarcoma is a rare cancer of the uterus (womb). It is not the same as endometrial cancer, a much more common cancer that starts in the lining of the uterus. Uterine sarcoma most often starts in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uterine sarcoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007655.htm

# Uterine sarcoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uterine sarcoma is a rare cancer of the uterus (womb). It is not the same as
endometrial cancer, a much more common cancer that starts in the lining of the
uterus. Uterine sarcoma most often starts in the muscle underneath that
lining.

## Causes

The exact cause is not known. But there are certain risk factors:

    * Past radiation therapy. A few women develop uterine sarcoma 5 to 25 years after they had radiation therapy for another pelvic cancer.
    * Past or current treatment with tamoxifen for breast cancer.
    * Race. African American women have twice the risk that white or Asian women have.
    * Genetics. The same abnormal gene that causes an eye cancer called retinoblastoma also increases the risk for uterine sarcoma.
    * Women who have never been pregnant.

## Symptoms

The most common symptom of uterine sarcoma is bleeding after menopause. Let
your health care provider know as soon as you can about:

    * Any bleeding that is not part of your menstrual period
    * Any bleeding that happens after menopause 

Most likely, the bleeding will not be from cancer. But you should always tell
your provider about unusual bleeding.

Other possible symptoms of uterine sarcoma include:

    * Vaginal discharge that does not get better with antibiotics and may occur without bleeding
    * A mass or lump in the vagina or uterus
    * Having to urinate oftenÂ 

Some of the symptoms of uterine sarcoma are similar to those of fibroids. The
only way to tell the difference between sarcoma and fibroids is with tests,
such as a biopsy of tissue taken from the uterus.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will take your medical history. You will also have a physical
exam and a pelvic exam. Other tests may include:

    * Endometrial biopsy to collect a sample of tissue to look for signs of cancer
    * Dilation and curettage (D & C) to collect cells from the uterus to look for cancer

Imaging tests are needed to create a picture of your reproductive organs.
Ultrasound of the pelvis is often done first. Yet, it often cannot tell the
difference between a fibroid and a sarcoma. An MRI scan of the pelvis may also
be needed.

A biopsy using ultrasound or MRI to guide the needle may be used to make the
diagnosis.

If your provider finds signs of cancer, other tests are needed for staging the
cancer. These tests will show much cancer there is. They'll also show if it
has spread to other parts of your body.

## Treatment

Surgery is the most common treatment for uterine cancer. Surgery may be used
to diagnose, stage, and treat uterine sarcoma all at one time. After surgery,
the cancer will be examined in a lab to see how advanced it is.

Depending on the results, you may need radiation therapy or chemotherapy to
kill any cancer cells that remain.

You also may have hormone therapy for certain kinds of tumors that respond to
hormones.

For advanced cancer that has spread outside the pelvis, you may want to join a
clinical trial for uterine cancer.

With cancer that has come back, radiation may be used for palliative
treatment. Palliative care is meant to relieve symptoms and improve a person's
quality of life.

## Support Groups

Cancer affects how you feel about yourself and your life. You can ease the
stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing with others who
have the same experiences and problems can help you feel less alone.

Ask your provider or the staff at the cancer treatment center to help you find
a support group for people who have been diagnosed with uterine cancer.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your prognosis depends on the type and stage of uterine sarcoma you had when
treated. For cancer that has not spread, at least 2 out of every 3 people are
cancer-free after 5 years. The number drops once the cancer has started to
spread and becomes harder to treat.

Uterine sarcoma is often not found early, therefore, the prognosis is poor.
Your provider can help you understand the outlook for your type of cancer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * A perforation (hole) of the uterus may occur during a D and C or endometrial biopsy
    * Complications from surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you have any symptoms of uterine cancer.

## Prevention

Because the cause is unknown, there's no way to prevent uterine sarcoma. If
you have had radiation therapy in your pelvic area or have taken tamoxifen for
breast cancer, ask your provider how often you should be checked for possible
problems.

## Alternative Names

Leiomyosarcoma; Endometrial stromal sarcoma; Undifferentiated sarcomas;
Uterine cancer - sarcoma; Undifferentiated uterine sarcoma; Malignant mixed
MÃ¼llerian tumors; Adenosarcoma - uterineÂ

## References

Boggess JF, Kilgore JE. Uterine cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 88.

Crum CP, Laury AR, Hirsch MS, Quick CM, Peters WA. Undifferentiated uterine
sarcoma. In: Crum CP, Laury AR, Hirsch MS, Quick CM, Peters WA, eds.
_Gynecologic and Obstetric Pathology_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:464-465.

National Cancer Institute website. Uterine sarcoma treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/uterine/hp/uterine-sarcoma-
treatment-pdq. Updated July 15, 2015. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineCancer2_thumb.jpg)Uterine Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

