Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000910.htm    
                                Description: Endometrial cancer is cancer that starts in the endometrium, the lining of the uterus (womb).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endometrial cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000910.htm

# Endometrial cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endometrial cancer is cancer that starts in the endometrium, the lining of the
uterus (womb).

## Causes

Endometrial cancer is the most common type of uterine cancer. The exact cause
of endometrial cancer is not known. An increased level of estrogen hormone may
play a role. This stimulates the buildup of the lining of the uterus. This can
lead to overgrowth of the endometrium and cancer.

Most cases of endometrial cancer occur between the ages of 60 and 70. A few
cases may occur before age 40.

The following factors related to your hormones increase your risk for
endometrial cancer:

    * Estrogen replacement therapy without the use of progesterone
    * History of endometrial polyps
    * Infrequent periods
    * Never being pregnant
    * Obesity
    * Diabetes
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
    * Starting menstruation at an early age (before age 12)
    * Starting menopause after age 50
    * Tamoxifen, a drug used for breast cancer treatment 

Women with the following conditions also seem to be at a higher risk for
endometrial cancer:

    * Colon or breast cancer
    * Gallbladder disease
    * High blood pressure

## Symptoms

Symptoms of endometrial cancer include:

    * Abnormal bleeding from the vagina, including bleeding between periods or spotting/bleeding after menopause
    * Extremely long, heavy, or frequent episodes of vaginal bleeding after age 40
    * Lower abdominal pain or pelvic cramping

## Exams and Tests

During the early stages of disease, a pelvic exam is often normal.

    * In advanced stages, there may be changes in the size, shape, or feel of the uterus or surrounding structures.
    * Pap smear (may raise a suspicion for endometrial cancer, but does not diagnose it)

Based on your symptoms and other findings, other tests may be needed. Some can
be done in your health care provider's office. Others may be done at a
hospital or surgical center:

    * Endometrial biopsy: Using a small or thin catheter (tube), tissue is taken from the lining of the uterus (endometrium). It is looked at under a microscope.
    * Hysteroscopy: A thin telescope-like device is inserted through the vagina and the opening of the cervix. It lets the provider view the inside of the uterus. 
    * Ultrasound: Sound waves are used to make a picture of the pelvic organs. The ultrasound may be performed abdominally or vaginally.
    * Sonohysterography: Fluid is placed in the uterus through a thin tube, while vaginal ultrasound images are made of the uterus. 
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): In this imaging test, powerful magnets are used to create images of internal organs. 

If cancer is found, imaging tests may be done to see if the cancer has spread
to other parts of the body. This is called staging.

Stages of endometrial cancer are:

    * Stage 1: The cancer is only in the uterus.
    * Stage 2: The cancer is in the uterus and cervix.
    * Stage 3: The cancer has spread outside of the uterus, but not beyond the true pelvis area. Cancer may involve the lymph nodes in the pelvis or near the aorta (the major artery in the abdomen).
    * Stage 4: The cancer has spread to the inner surface of the bowel, bladder, abdomen, or other organs. 

Cancer is also described as grade 1, 2, or 3. Grade 1 is the least aggressive,
and grade 3 is the most aggressive. Aggressive means that the cancer grows and
spreads quickly.

## Treatment

Treatment options include:

    * Surgery
    * Radiation therapy
    * Chemotherapy

Surgery to remove the uterus (hysterectomy) may be done in women with early
stage 1 cancer. The doctor may also remove the tubes and ovaries.

Surgery combined with radiation therapy is another treatment option. It is
often used for women with:

    * Stage 1 disease that has a high chance of returning, has spread to the lymph nodes, or is a grade 2 or 3
    * Stage 2 disease

Chemotherapy or hormonal therapy may be considered in some cases, most often
for those with stage 3 and 4 disease.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Endometrial cancer is usually diagnosed at an early stage.

If the cancer has not spread, 95% of women are alive afterÂ 5 years. If the
cancer has spread to distant organs, about 25% of women are still alive afterÂ
5 years.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include any of the following:

    * Anemia due to blood loss (before diagnosis)
    * Perforation (hole) of the uterus, which may occur during a D and C or endometrial biopsy
    * Problems from surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Any bleeding or spotting that occurs after the onset of menopause
    * Bleeding or spotting after intercourse or douching
    * Bleeding lasting longer than 7 days
    * Periods that occur every 21 days or sooner
    * New discharge after menopause has begun
    * Pelvic pain or cramping that does not go away 

## Prevention

There is no effective screening test for endometrial (uterine) cancer.

Women with risk factors for endometrial cancer should be followed closely by
their doctors. This includes women who are taking:

    * Estrogen replacement therapy without progesterone therapy
    * Tamoxifen for more than 2 years 

Frequent pelvic exams, Pap smears, vaginal ultrasounds, and endometrial biopsy
may be considered in some cases.

The risk for endometrial cancer is reduced by:

    * Maintaining a normal weight
    * Using birth control pills for over a year 

## Alternative Names

Endometrial adenocarcinoma; Uterine adenocarcinoma; Uterine cancer;
Adenocarcinoma - endometrium; Adenocarcinoma - uterus; Cancer - uterine;
Cancer - endometrial; Uterine corpus cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
    * Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge
    * Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge 
    * Pelvic radiation - discharge

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![D and C](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17047t.jpg)D and C
    * ![Endometrial biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17059t.jpg)Endometrial biopsy
    * ![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17073t.jpg)Hysterectomy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Endometrial cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9294t.jpg)Endometrial cancer

## References

Boggess JF, Kilgore JE. Uterine cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 88.

Morice P, Leary A, Creutzberg C, Abu-Rustum N, Darai E. Endometrial cancer.
_Lancet_. 2016;387(10023):1094-1108. PMID: 26354523
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26354523.

National Cancer Institute website. Endometrial cancer treatment treatment
(PDQ) â health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/uterine/hp/endometrial-treatment-pdq. Updated January 19,
2018. Accessed February 9, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): uterine neoplasms. Version 1. 2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/uterine.pdf. Updated October 13,
2017. Accessed March 28, 2018.

Silasi D-A, Azodi M. Cancer of the endometrium. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET,
eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:1084-1086.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineCancer2_thumb.jpg)Uterine Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

