Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000903.htm    
                                Description: Abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) is bleeding from the uterus that is longer than usual or that occurs at an irregular time. Bleeding may be heavier or lighter than usual and occur often or randomly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abnormal uterine bleeding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000903.htm

# Abnormal uterine bleeding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) is bleeding from the uterus that is longer
than usual or that occurs at an irregular time. Bleeding may be heavier or
lighter than usual and occur often or randomly.

AUB can occur:

    * As spotting or bleeding between your periods
    * After sex
    * For longer days than normal
    * Heavier than normal
    * After menopause

It does NOT occur during pregnancy. Bleeding during pregnancy has different
causes. If you have any bleeding when you are pregnant, be sure to call your
health care provider.

## Causes

Every woman's period (menstrual cycle) is different.

    * On average, a woman's period occurs every 28 days.
    * Most women have cycles between 24 and 34 days apart. It usually lasts 4 to 7 days.
    * Young girls may get their periods anywhere from 21 to 45 days or more apart.
    * Women in their 40s may start to have their period less often or have the interval between their periods decrease. 

For most women, female hormone levels change every month. The hormones
estrogen and progesterone are released as part of the process of ovulation.
When a woman ovulates, an egg is released.

AUB can occur when the ovaries do not release an egg. Changes in hormone
levels cause your period to be later or earlier. Your period may sometimes be
heavier than normal.

AUB is more common in teenagers or in premenopausal women. Women who are
overweight also may be more likely to have AUB.

In many women, AUB is caused by a hormone imbalance. It can also occur due to
following causes:

    * Thickening of the uterine wall or lining
    * Uterine fibroids
    * Uterine polyps
    * Cancers of ovaries, uterus, cervix, or vagina
    * Bleeding disorders or problems with blood clotting
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome
    * Severe weight loss
    * Hormonal birth control, such as birth control pills or intrauterine devices (IUD)
    * Excessive weight gain or loss (more than 10 pounds or 4.5 kilograms)
    * Infection of the uterus or cervix

## Symptoms

AUB is unpredictable. The bleeding may be very heavy or light, and can occur
often or randomly.

Symptoms of AUB may include:

    * Bleeding or spotting from the vagina between periods
    * Periods that occur less than 28 days apart (more common) or more than 35 days apart
    * Time between periods changes each month
    * Heavier bleeding (such as passing large clots, needing to change protection during the night, soaking through a sanitary pad or tampon every hour for 2 to 3 hours in a row)
    * Bleeding that lasts for more days than normal or for more than 7 days

Other symptoms caused by changes in hormone levels may include:

    * Excessive growth of body hair in a male pattern (hirsutism)
    * Hot flashes
    * Mood swings
    * Tenderness and dryness of the vagina 

A woman may feel tired or fatigued if she loses too much blood over time. This
is a symptom of anemia.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will rule out other possible causes of irregular bleeding. You
will likely have a pelvic exam and Pap/HPV test. Other tests that may be done
include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Blood clotting profile
    * Liver function tests (LFT)
    * Fasting blood glucose
    * Hormone tests, for FSH, LH, male hormone (androgen) levels, prolactin, and progesterone
    * Pregnancy test
    * Thyroid function tests

Your provider may recommend the following:

    * Culture to look for infection
    * Biopsy to check for precancer, cancer, or to help decide on hormone treatment
    * Hysteroscopy, performed in your provider's office to look into the uterus through the vagina
    * Ultrasound to look for problems in the uterus or pelvis 

## Treatment

Treatment may include one or more of the following:

    * Low-dose birth control pills
    * Hormone therapy
    * High-dose estrogen therapy for women with very heavy bleeding
    * Intrauterine device (IUD) that releases the hormone progestin
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) taken just before the period starts
    * Surgery, if the cause of the bleeding is a polyp or fibroid

Your provider may put you on iron supplements if you have anemia.

If you want to get pregnant, you may be given medicine to stimulate ovulation.

Women with severe symptoms that don't improve or who have a cancerous or
precancerous diagnosis may require other procedures such as:

    * Surgical procedure to destroy or remove the lining of the uterus
    * Hysterectomy to remove the uterus 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hormone therapy often relieves symptoms. Treatment may not be needed if you do
not develop anemia due to blood loss. A treatment focused on the cause of the
bleeding is often immediately effective. That is why it's important to
understand the cause.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may occur:

    * Infertility (inability to get pregnant)
    * Severe anemia due to a lot of blood loss over time
    * Increased risk for endometrial cancer

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have unusual vaginal bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Anovulatory bleeding; Abnormal uterine bleeding - hormonal; Polymenorrhea -
dysfunctional uterine bleeding

## Images

    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. ACOG committee
opinion no. 557: Management of acute abnormal uterine bleeding in nonpregnant
reproductive-aged women. Reaffirmed 2017. www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-
Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Gynecologic-Practice/Management-
of-Acute-Abnormal-Uterine-Bleeding-in-Nonpregnant-Reproductive-Aged-Women.
Accessed October 27, 2018.

Bahamondes L, Ali M. Recent advances in managing and understanding menstrual
disorders. _F1000Prime Rep_. 2015;7:33. PMID: 25926984
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25926984.

Ryntz T, Lobo RA. Abnormal uterine bleeding: etiology and management of acute
and chronic excessive bleeding. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea
FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 26.

Schrager S. Abnormal uterine bleeding. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1073-1074.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

