Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000614.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy is any discharge of blood from the vagina. It can happen any time from conception (when the egg is fertilized) to the end of pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal bleeding in early pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000614.htm

# Vaginal bleeding in early pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy is any discharge of blood from the vagina.
It can happen any time from conception (when the egg is fertilized) to the end
of pregnancy.

Some women have vaginal bleeding during their first 20 weeks of pregnancy.

## The Difference Between Spotting and Bleeding

Spotting is when you notice a few drops of blood every now and then on your
underwear. It is not enough to cover a panty liner.

Bleeding is a heavier flow of blood. With bleeding, you will need a liner or
pad to keep the blood from soaking your clothes.

Ask your health care provider more about the difference between spotting and
bleeding at one of your first prenatal visits.

## Should I Worry about Spotting?

Some spotting is normal very early in pregnancy. Still, it is a good idea to
tell your provider about it.

If you have had an ultrasound that confirms you have a normal pregnancy, call
your provider the day you first see the spotting.

If you have spotting and have not yet had an ultrasound, contact your provider
right away. Spotting can be a sign of a pregnancy where the fertilized egg
develops outside the uterus (ectopic pregnancy). An untreated ectopic
pregnancy can be life-threatening for the woman.

## What Causes Vaginal Bleeding?

Bleeding in the 1st trimester is not always a problem. It may be caused by:

    * Having sex
    * An infection
    * The fertilized egg implanting in the uterus
    * Hormone changes
    * Other factors that will not harm the woman or baby

More serious causes of first-trimester bleeding include:

    * A miscarriage, which is the loss of the pregnancy before the embryo or fetus can live on its own outside the uterus. Almost all women who miscarry will have bleeding before a miscarriage.
    * An ectopic pregnancy, which may cause bleeding and cramping.
    * A molar pregnancy, in which a fertilized egg implants in the uterus that will not come to term.

## What Will My Provider Need to Know?

Your provider may need to know these things to find the cause of your vaginal
bleeding:

    * How far along is your pregnancy?
    * Have you had vaginal bleeding during this or an earlier pregnancy?
    * When did your bleeding begin?
    * Does it stop and start, or is it a steady flow?
    * How much blood is there?
    * What is the color of the blood?
    * Does the blood have an odor?
    * Do you have cramps or pain?
    * Do you feel weak or tired?
    * Have you fainted or felt dizzy?
    * Do you have nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea?
    * Do you have a fever?
    * Have you been injured, such as in a fall?
    * Have you changed your physical activity?
    * Do you have any extra stress?
    * When did you last have sex? Did you bleed afterward?
    * What is your blood type? Your provider can test your blood type. If it is Rh negative, you will need treatment with a medicine called Rho(D) immune globulin to prevent complications with future pregnancies. 

## Treatment for Vaginal Bleeding

Most of the time, the treatment for bleeding is rest. It is important to see
your provider and have testing done to find the cause of your bleeding. Your
provider may advise you to:

    * Take time off work
    * Stay off your feet
    * Not have sex
    * Not douche (NEVER do this during pregnancy, and also avoid it when you are not pregnant)
    * Not use tampons 

Very heavy bleeding may require a hospital stay or surgical procedure.

## What if I Discharge More than Blood?

If something other than blood comes out, call your provider right away. Put
the discharge in a jar or a plastic bag and bring it with you to your
appointment.

Your provider will check to see if you are still pregnant. You will be closely
watched with blood tests to see if you are still pregnant.

If you are no longer pregnant, you may need more care from your provider, such
as medicine or possibly surgery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call or go to your provider right away if you have:

    * Heavy bleeding
    * Bleeding with pain or cramping
    * Dizziness and bleeding
    * Pain in your belly or pelvis 

If you cannot reach your provider, go to the emergency room.

If your bleeding has stopped, you still need to call your provider. Your
provider will need to find out what caused your bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Miscarriage - vaginal bleeding; Threatened abortion - vaginal bleeding

## References

Francois KE, Foley MR. Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Health Problems in Pregnancy
    * Vaginal Bleeding

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

