Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003156.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses vaginal bleeding that occurs between a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal bleeding between periods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003156.htm

# Vaginal bleeding between periods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses vaginal bleeding that occurs between a woman's monthly
menstrual periods. Such bleeding may be called "intermenstrual bleeding."

Related topics include:

    * Dysfunctional uterine bleeding
    * Heavy, prolonged, or irregular menstrual periods 

## Considerations

Normal menstrual flow lasts about 5 days. It produces a total blood loss of 30
to 80 mL (about 2 to 8 tablespoons), and occurs normally every 21 to 35 days.

Vaginal bleeding that occurs between periods or after menopause can be caused
by various problems. Most are benign and can be easily treated. Sometimes,
vaginal bleeding may be due to cancer or pre-cancer. Therefore, any unusual
bleeding should be evaluated right away. The riskÂ for cancer increases to
about 10% in women with postmenopausal bleeding.

Make sure that bleeding is coming from the vagina and is not from the rectum
or the urine. Inserting a tampon into the vagina will confirm the vagina,
cervix, or uterus as the source of bleeding.

A careful exam by your health care provider is most often the best way to find
the source of the bleeding. This exam can be done even while you are bleeding.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Uterine fibroids or cervical or uterine polyps
    * Changes in hormone levels
    * Inflammation or infection of the cervix (cervicitis)Â or uterus (endometritis)
    * Injury or disease of the vaginal opening (caused by intercourse, trauma, infection, polyp, genital warts, ulcer, or varicose veins)
    * IUD use (may cause occasional spotting)
    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Miscarriage
    * Other pregnancy complications
    * Vaginal dryness due to lack of estrogen after menopause
    * Stress
    * Using hormonal birth control irregularly (such as stopping and starting or skipping birth control pills, patches, or estrogen rings)Â 
    * Underactive thyroid (low thyroid function)
    * Use of blood thinners (anticoagulants)
    * Cancer or pre-cancer of the cervix, uterus, or (very rarely) fallopian tube
    * Pelvic exam, cervical biopsy,Â endometrial biopsy, or other procedures 

## Home Care

Contact a provider right away if bleeding is very heavy.

Keep track of the number of pads or tampons used over time so that the amount
of bleeding can be determined. Uterine blood loss can be estimated by keeping
track of how frequently a pad or tampon is soaked and how often one needs to
be changed.

If possible, aspirin should be avoided, as it may prolong bleeding. However,
NSAIDS such as ibuprofen can be used to minimize bleeding and cramping.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You are pregnant.
    * There is any unexplained bleeding between periods.
    * There is any bleeding after menopause.
    * There is heavy bleeding with periods.
    * Abnormal bleeding is accompanied by other symptoms, such as pelvic pain, fatigue, dizziness. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your medical
history. The physical exam will include a pelvic exam.

Questions about the bleeding may include:

    * When does the bleeding occur and how long does it last?
    * How heavy is the bleeding?
    * Do you have cramps too?
    * Are there things that make the bleeding worse?
    * Is there anything that prevents it or relieves it?
    * Do you have any other symptoms such as abdominal pain, bruising, pain when urinating, or blood in urine or stools?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests to check thyroid and ovarian function
    * Cervical cultures to check for a sexually transmitted infection
    * Colposcopy and cervical biopsy
    * Endometrial (uterine) biopsy
    * Pap smear
    * Pelvic ultrasound
    * Hysterosonogram
    * Hysteroscopy
    * Pregnancy test

Most causes of intermenstrual bleeding are easily treatable. The problem can
most often be diagnosed without too much discomfort. Therefore, it is
important not to delay in having this problem evaluated by your provider.

## Alternative Names

Bleeding between periods; Intermenstrual bleeding; Spotting; Metrorrhagia

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Bleeding between periods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17013t.jpg)Bleeding between periods
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Ellenson LH, Pirog EC. The female genital tract. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster
JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 22.

Ryntz T, Lobo RA. Abnormal uterine bleeding: etiology and management of acute
and chronic excessive bleeding. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea
FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 3/28/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

