Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007496.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal bleeding normally occurs during a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal or uterine bleeding - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007496.htm

# Vaginal or uterine bleeding - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal bleeding normally occurs during a woman's menstrual cycle, when she
gets her period. Every woman's period is different.

    * Most women have cycles between 24 and 34 days apart. It usually lasts 4 to 7 days in most cases.
    * Young girls may get their periods anywhere from 21 to 45 days or more apart.
    * Women in their 40s will often notice their period occurring less often. 

Many women have abnormal bleeding between their periods at some point in their
lives. Abnormal bleeding occurs when you have:

    * Heavier bleeding than usual
    * Bleeding for more days than normal (menorrhagia)
    * Spotting or bleeding between periods
    * Bleeding after sex
    * Bleeding after menopause
    * Bleeding while pregnant
    * Bleeding before age 9
    * Menstrual cycles longer than 35 days or shorter than 21 days
    * No period for 3 to 6 months (amenorrhea) 

## Causes

There are many causes of abnormal vaginal bleeding.

HORMONES

Abnormal bleeding is often linked to failure of regular ovulation
(anovulation). Doctors call the problem abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB)Â or
anovulatory uterine bleeding. AUB is more common in teenagers and in women who
are approaching menopause.

Women who take oral contraceptives may experience episodes of abnormal vaginal
bleeding. Often this is called "breakthrough bleeding." This problem often
goes away on its own. However, talk to your health care provider if you have
concerns about the bleeding.

PREGNANCY

Pregnancy complications such as:

    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Miscarriage
    * Threatened miscarriage  

PROBLEMS WITH REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS

Problems with reproductive organs may include:

    * Infection in the uterus (pelvic inflammatory disease)
    * Recent injury or surgery to the uterus
    * Noncancerous growths in the womb, including uterine fibroids, uterine or cervical polyps, and adenomyosis
    * Inflammation or infection of the cervix (cervicitis)
    * Injury or disease of the vaginal opening (caused by intercourse, infection, polyp, genital warts, ulcer, or varicose veins)
    * Endometrial hyperplasia (thickening or build-up of the lining of the uterus)

MEDICAL CONDITIONS

Problems with medical conditions may include:

    * Polycystic ovary syndrome
    * Cancer or precancer of the cervix, uterus, ovary, or fallopian tube
    * Thyroid or pituitary disorders
    * Diabetes
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Lupus erythematosus
    * Bleeding disorders

OTHER CAUSES

Other causes may include:

    * Use of an intrauterine device (IUD) for birth control (may cause spotting)
    * Cervical or endometrial biopsy or other procedures
    * Changes in exercise routine
    * Diet changes
    * Recent weight loss or gain
    * Stress
    * Use of certain drugs such as blood thinners (warfarin or Coumadin)
    * Sexual abuse
    * An object in the vagina

## Symptoms

Symptoms of abnormal vaginal bleeding include:

    * Bleeding or spotting between periods
    * Bleeding after sex
    * Bleeding more heavily (passing large clots, needing to change protection during the night, soaking through a sanitary pad or tampon every hour for 2 to 3 hours in a row)
    * Bleeding for more days than normal or for more than 7 days
    * Menstrual cycle less than 28 days (more common) or more than 35 days apart
    * Bleeding after you have gone through menopause 
    * Heavy bleeding associated with anemia (low blood count, low iron)  

Bleeding from the rectum or blood in the urine may be mistaken for vaginal
bleeding. To know for certain, insert a tampon into the vagina and check for
bleeding.

Keep a record of your symptoms and bring these notes to your doctor. Your
record should include:

    * When menstruation begins and ends
    * How much flow you have (count numbers of pads and tampons used, noting whether they are soaked)
    * Bleeding between periods and after sex
    * Any other symptoms you have 

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will perform a physical exam, including a pelvic exam. Your
provider will ask questions about your medical history and symptoms.

You may have certain tests, including:

    * Pap/HPV test
    * Urinalysis
    * Thyroid functioning tests
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Iron count
    * Pregnancy test

Based on your symptoms, other tests may be needed. Some can be done in your
provider's office. Others may be done at a hospital or surgical center:

    * Sonohysterography: Fluid is placed in the uterus through a thin tube, while vaginal ultrasound images are made of the uterus.
    * Ultrasound: Sound waves are used to make a picture of the pelvic organs. The ultrasound may be performed abdominally or vaginally.Â 
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): In this imaging test, powerful magnets are used to create images of internal organs.
    * Hysteroscopy: A thin telescope-like device is inserted through the vagina and the opening of the cervix. It lets the provider view the inside of the uterus.
    * Endometrial biopsy: Using a small or thin catheter (tube), tissue is taken from the lining of the uterus (endometrium). It is looked at under a microscope.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the specific cause of the vaginal bleeding, including:

    * Hormonal changes 
    * Endometriosis
    * Uterine fibroids
    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome

Treatment may include hormonal medicines, pain relievers, and possibly
surgery.

The type of hormone you take will depend on whether you want to get pregnant
as well as your age.

    * Birth control pills can help make your periods more regular.
    * Hormones also can be given as an injection, a skin patch, a vaginal cream, or through an IUD that releases hormones.
    * An IUD is a birth control device that is inserted in the uterus. The hormones in the IUD are released slowly and may control abnormal bleeding.

Other medicines given for AUB may include:

    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen or naproxen) to help control bleeding and reduce menstrual cramps
    * Tranexamic acid to help treat heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Antibiotics to treat infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have soaked through a pad or tampon every hour for 2 to 3 hours.
    * Your bleeding lasts longer than 1 week.
    * You have vaginal bleeding and you are pregnant or could be pregnant.
    * You have severe pain, especially if you also have pain when not menstruating.
    * Your periods have been heavy or prolonged for three or more cycles, compared to what is normal for you.
    * You have bleeding or spotting after reaching menopause.
    * You have bleeding or spotting between periods or caused by having sex.
    * Abnormal bleeding returns.
    * Bleeding increases or becomes severe enough to cause weakness or lightheadedness.
    * You have fever or pain in the lower abdomen
    * Your symptoms become more severe or frequent.

## Prevention

Aspirin may prolong bleeding and should be avoided if you have bleeding
problems. Ibuprofen most often works better than aspirin for relieving
menstrual cramps. It also may reduce the amount of blood you lose during a
period.

## Alternative Names

Irregular menstruation; Heavy, prolonged, or irregular periods; Menorrhagia;
Polymenorrhea; Metrorrhagia and other menstrual conditions; Abnormal menstrual
periods; Abnormal vaginal bleeding

## References

ACOG Practice Bulletin No. 110: noncontraceptive uses of hormonal
contraceptives. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2010;115(1):206-218. PMID: 20027071
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20027071.

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. ACOG Committee Opinion No
557: Management of acute abnormal uterine bleeding in nonpregnant
reproductive-aged women. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;121(4):891-896. PMID: 23635706
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23635706.

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Ryntz T, Lobo RA. Abnormal uterine bleeding: etiology and management of acute
and chronic excessive bleeding. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea
FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 26.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Menstrual irregularities. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

