Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000627.htm    
                                Description: One out of 10 women will have vaginal bleeding during their 3rd trimester. At times, it may be a sign of a more serious problem. In the last few months of pregnancy, you should always report bleeding to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal bleeding in late pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000627.htm

# Vaginal bleeding in late pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

One out of 10 women will have vaginal bleeding during their 3rd trimester. At
times, it may be a sign of a more serious problem. In the last few months of
pregnancy, you should always report bleeding to your health care provider
right away.

You should understand the difference between spotting and bleeding:

    * Spotting is when you notice a few drops of blood every now and then on your underwear. It is not enough to cover a panty liner.
    * Bleeding is a heavier flow of blood. With bleeding, you will need a liner or pad to keep the blood from soaking your clothes. 

## What Causes Bleeding Later in Pregnancy?

When labor begins, the cervix starts to open up more, or dilate. You may
notice a small amount of blood mixed in with normal vaginal discharge, or
mucus.

Mid- or late-term bleeding may also be caused by:

    * Having sex (most often just spotting)
    * An internal exam by your provider (most often just spotting)
    * Diseases or infections of the vagina or cervix
    * Uterine fibroids or cervical growths or polyps 

More serious causes of late-term bleeding may include:

    * Placenta previa is a problem of pregnancy in which the placenta grows in the lowest part of the womb (uterus) and covers all or part of the opening to the cervix.
    * Placenta abruptio (abruption) occurs when the placenta separates from the inner wall of the uterus before the baby is born. 

## What to Tell Your Health Care Provider

To find the cause of your vaginal bleeding, your provider may need to know:

    * If you have cramping, pain, or contractions
    * If you have had any other bleeding during this pregnancy
    * When the bleeding began and whether it comes and goes or is constant
    * How much bleeding is present, and whether it is spotting or a heavier flow
    * The color of the blood (dark or bright red)
    * If there is an odor to the blood
    * If you have fainted, felt dizzy or nauseated, vomited, or had diarrhea or a fever
    * If you have had recent injuries or falls
    * When you last had sex and if you bled afterward 

## What Should Happen Next?

A small amount of spotting without any other symptoms that occurs after having
sex or an exam by your provider can be watched at home. To do this:

    * Put on a clean pad and recheck it every 30 to 60 minutes for a few hours.
    * If spotting or bleeding continues, call your provider.
    * If the bleeding is heavy, your belly feels stiff and painful, or you are having strong and frequent contractions, you may need to call 911. 

For any other bleeding, call your provider right away.

    * You will be told whether to go to the emergency room or to the labor and delivery area in your hospital.
    * Your provider will also tell you whether you can drive yourself or you should call an ambulance. 

## References

Francois KE, Foley MR. Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Frank J. Vaginal bleeding late in pregnancy. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1138-1139.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Health Problems in Pregnancy
    * Vaginal Bleeding

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

