Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003264.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal bleeding in pregnancy is any discharge of blood from the vagina during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal bleeding in pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003264.htm

# Vaginal bleeding in pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal bleeding in pregnancy is any discharge of blood from the vagina during
pregnancy.

## Considerations

Up to 1 in 4 women have vaginal bleeding at some time during their pregnancy.
Bleeding is more common in the first 3 months (first trimester), especially
with twins.

## Causes

During the first 3 months, vaginal bleeding may be a sign of a miscarriage or
ectopic pregnancy. Contact the health care provider right away.

During months 4 to 9, bleeding may be a sign of:

    * The placenta separating from the inner wall of the uterus before the baby is born (abruptio placentae)
    * Miscarriage
    * The placenta covering all or part of the opening to the cervix (placenta previa)
    * Vasa previa (babies blood vessels exposed across or near the internal opening of the uterus)

Other possible causes of vaginal bleeding during pregnancy:

    * Cervical polyp or growth
    * Early labor (bloody show)
    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Infection of the cervix
    * Trauma to the cervix from intercourse (small amount of bleeding) or recent pelvic exam

## Home Care

Avoid sexual intercourse until your provider tells you that it is safe to
start having intercourse again.

Consume only fluids if the bleeding and cramping are severe.

You may need to cut down your activity or be put on bed rest at home.

    * Bed rest at home may be for the rest of your pregnancy or until the bleeding stops.
    * The bed rest may be complete.
    * Or, you may be able to get up to go to the bathroom, walk around the house, or do light chores.

Medicine is not needed in most cases. DO NOT take any medicines without
talking to your provider.

Talk to your provider about what to look for, such as the amount of bleeding
and color of the blood.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * You have any vaginal bleeding during pregnancy. Treat this as a potential emergency.
    * You have vaginal bleeding and have placenta previa (get to the hospital right away).
    * You have cramps or labor pains.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical exam.

You will probably have a pelvic exam, or ultrasound as well.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests
    * Pregnancy ultrasound
    * Ultrasound of the pelvis

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - vaginal bleeding; Maternal blood loss - vaginal

## Images

    * ![Ultrasound in pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23223t.jpg)Ultrasound in pregnancy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Anatomy of a normal placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17010t.jpg)Anatomy of a normal placenta
    * ![Placenta previa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17122t.jpg)Placenta previa
    * ![Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17137t.jpg)Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy

## References

Francois KE, Foley MR. Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications in pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![Vaginal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

