Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003776.htm    
                                Description: A thyroid ultrasound is an imaging method to see the thyroid, a gland in the neck that regulates metabolism (the many processes that control the rate of activity in cells and tissues).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003776.htm

# Thyroid ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A thyroid ultrasound is an imaging method to see the thyroid, a gland in the
neck that regulates metabolism (the many processes that control the rate of
activity in cells and tissues).

## How the Test is Performed

Ultrasound is a painless method that uses sound waves to create images of the
inside of the body. The test is often done in the ultrasound or radiology
department. It also can be done in a clinic.

The test is done in this way:

    * You lie down with your neck on a pillow or other soft support. Your neck is stretched slightly.
    * The ultrasound technician applies a water-based gel on your neck to help transmit the sound waves. 
    * Next, the technician moves a wand, called a transducer, back and forth on the skin of your neck. The transducer gives off sound waves. The sound waves go through your body and bounce off the area being studied (in this case, the thyroid gland). A computer looks at the pattern that the sound waves create when bouncing back, and creates an image from them. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You should feel very little discomfort with this test. The gel may be cold.

## Why the Test is Performed

A thyroid ultrasound is usually done when physical exam shows any of these
findings:

    * You have a growth on your thyroid gland, called a thyroid nodule.
    * The thyroid feels big or irregular, called a goiter.
    * You have abnormal lymph nodes near your thyroid.

Ultrasound is also often used to guide the needle in biopsies of:

    * Thyroid nodules or the thyroid glandÂ -- In this test, a needle draws out a small amount of tissue from the nodule or thyroid gland. This is a test to diagnose thyroid disease or thyroid cancer.
    * The parathyroid gland.
    * Lymph nodes in the area of the thyroid.

## Normal Results

A normal result will show that the thyroid has a normal size, shape, and
position.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * CystsÂ (nodules filled with fluid)
    * Enlargement of the thyroid gland (goiter)
    * Thyroid nodules
    * Thyroiditis, or inflammation of the thyroid (if a biopsy is done)
    * Thyroid cancer (if a biopsy is done) 

Your health care provider can use these results and the results of other tests
to direct your care.

## Risks

There are no documented risks for ultrasound.

## Alternative Names

Ultrasound - thyroid; Thyroid sonogram; Thyroid echogram; Thyroid nodule -
ultrasound; Goiter - ultrasound

## Images

    * ![Thyroid ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18056t.jpg)Thyroid ultrasound
    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Blum M. Thyroid imaging. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Salvatore D, Davies TF, Schlumberger M-J, Hay ID, Larsen PR. Thyroid
physiology and diagnostic evaluation of patients with thyroid disorders. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![Thyroid Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidTests_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Tests _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

