Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007150.htm    
                                Description: Stress echocardiography is a test that uses ultrasound imaging to show how well your heart muscle is working to pump blood to your body. It is most often used to detect a decrease in blood flow to the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stress echocardiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007150.htm

# Stress echocardiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stress echocardiography is a test that uses ultrasound imaging to show how
well your heart muscle is working to pump blood to your body. It is most often
used to detect a decrease in blood flow to the heart from narrowing in the
coronary arteries.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done at a medical center or health care provider's office.

A resting echocardiogram will be done first. While you lie on your left side
with your left arm out, a small device called a transducer is held against
your chest. A special gel is used to help the ultrasound waves get to your
heart.

Most people will walk on a treadmill (or pedal on an exercise bicycle). Slowly
(about every 3 minutes), you will be asked to walk (or pedal) faster and on an
incline. It is like being asked to walk fast or jog up a hill.

In most cases, you will need to walk or pedal for around 5 to 15 minutes,
depending on your level of fitness and your age. Your provider will ask you to
stop:

    * When your heart is beating at the target rate
    * When you are too tired to continue
    * If you are having chest pain or a change in your blood pressure that worries the provider administering the test 

If you are not able to exercise, you will get a drug, such as dobutamine,
through a vein (intravenous line). This medicine will make your heart beat
faster and harder, similar to when you exercise.

Your blood pressure and heart rhythm (ECG) will be monitored throughout the
procedure.

More echocardiogram images will be taken while your heart rate is increasing,
or when it reaches its peak. The images will show whether any parts of the
heart muscle do not work as well when your heart rate increases. This is a
sign that part of the heart may not be getting enough blood or oxygen because
of narrowed or blocked arteries.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Ask your provider if you should take any of your routine medicines on the day
of the test. Some medicines may interfere with test results. Never stop taking
any medicine without first talking to your doctor.

It is important to tell your doctor if you have taken any of the following
medicines within the past 24 hours (1 day):

    * Sildenafil citrate (Viagra)
    * Tadalafil (Cialis)
    * Vardenafil (Levitra) 

DO NOT eat or drink for at least 3 hours before the test.

Wear loose, comfortable clothing. You will be asked to sign a consent form
before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

Electrodes (conductive patches) will be placed on your chest, arms, and legs
to record the heart's activity.

The blood pressure cuff on your arm will be inflated every few minutes,
producing a squeezing sensation that may feel tight.

Rarely, people feel chest discomfort, extra or skipped heartbeats, dizziness,
headache, nausea or shortness of breath during the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed to see whether your heart muscle is getting enough blood
flow and oxygen when it is working hard (under stress).

Your doctor may order this test if you:

    * Have new symptoms of angina or chest pain
    * Have angina that is getting worse
    * Have recently had a heart attack
    * Are going to have surgery or begin an exercise program, if you are at high risk for heart disease
    * Have heart valve problems 

The results of this stress test can help your provider:

    * Determine how well a heart treatment is working and change your treatment, if needed
    * Determine how well your heart is pumping
    * Diagnose coronary artery disease
    * See whether your heart is too large 

## Normal Results

A normal test will most often mean that you were able to exercise as long as
or longer than most people of your age and gender. You also did not have
symptoms or concerning changes in blood pressure and your ECG. Your heart
pictures show that all parts of your heart respond to increased stress by
pumping harder.

A normal result means that blood flow through the coronary arteries is
probably normal.

The meaning of your test results depends on the reason for the test, your age,
and your history of heart and other medical problems.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Reduced blood flow to a part of the heart. The most likely cause is a narrowing or blockage of the arteries that supply your heart muscle.
    * Scarring of the heart muscle due to a past heart attack. 
![Developmental process of
atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18020.jpg)

After the test you may need:

    * Angioplasty and stent placement
    * Changes in your heart medicines
    * Coronary angiography
    * Heart bypass surgery

## Risks

The risks are very low. Health care professionals will monitor you during the
entire procedure.

Rare complications include:

    * Abnormal heart rhythm
    * Fainting (syncope)
    * Heart attack

## Alternative Names

Echocardiography stress test; Stress test - echocardiography; CAD - stress
echocardiography; Coronary artery disease - stress echocardiography; Chest
pain - stress echocardiography; Angina - stress echocardiography; Heart
disease - stress echocardiography

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Developmental process of atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18020t.jpg)Developmental process of atherosclerosis

## References

Boden WE. Angina pectoris and stable ischemic heart disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 71.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(18):1929-1949.
PMID: 25077860 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25077860.

Fowler GC, Smith A. Stress echocardiography. In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger
and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 76.Â

Solomon SD, Wu JC, Gillam L, Bulwer B. Echocardiography. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 14.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

