Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003775.htm    
                                Description: This test uses ultrasound to look at the blood flow in the large arteries and veins in the arms or legs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Doppler ultrasound exam of an arm or leg

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003775.htm

# Doppler ultrasound exam of an arm or leg

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test uses ultrasound to look at the blood flow in the large arteries and
veins in the arms or legs.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in the ultrasound or radiology department, a hospital room,
or in a peripheral vascular lab.

During the exam:

    * A water-soluble gel is placed on a handheld device called a transducer. This device directs high-frequency sound waves to the artery or veins being tested.
    * Blood pressure cuffs may be put around different parts of the body, including the thigh, calf, ankle, and different points along the arm.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will need to remove clothes from the arm or leg being examined.

## How the Test will Feel

Sometimes, the person performing the test will need to press on the vein to
make sure it does not have a clot. Some people may feel slight pain from the
pressure.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done as the first step to look at arteries and veins. Sometimes,Â
arteriography and venography may be needed later. The test is done to help
diagnose:

    * Arteriosclerosis of the arms or legs
    * Blood clot (deep vein thrombosis)
    * Venous insufficiency

The test may also be used to:

    * Look at injury to the arteries 
    * Monitor arterial reconstruction and bypass grafts

## Normal Results

A normal result means the blood vessels show no signs of narrowing, clots, or
closure, and the arteries have normal blood flow.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Blockage in an artery by a blood clot 
    * Blood clot in a vein (DVT)
    * Narrowing or widening of an artery
    * Spastic arterial disease (arterial contractions brought on by cold or emotion)
    * Venous occlusion (closing of a vein) 
    * Venous reflux (blood flow going the wrong direction in veins)
    * Arterial occlusion from atherosclerosis

This test may also be done to help assess the following conditions:

    * Arteriosclerosis of the extremities
    * Deep venous thrombosis
    * Superficial thrombophlebitis

## Risks

There are no risks from this procedure.

## Considerations

Cigarette smoking may alter the results of this test. Nicotine can cause the
arteries in the extremities to constrict.

Quitting smoking lowers the risk for problems with the heart and circulatory
system. Most smoking-related deaths are caused by cardiovascular problems, not
lung cancer.

## Alternative Names

Peripheral vascular disease - Doppler; PVD - Doppler; PAD - Doppler; Blockage
of leg arteries - Doppler; Intermittent claudication - Doppler; Arterial
insufficiency of the legs - Doppler; Leg pain and cramping - Doppler; Calf
pain - Doppler; Venous Doppler - DVT

## Images

    * ![Doppler ultrasonography of an extremity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9279t.jpg)Doppler ultrasonography of an extremity

## References

Anderson JL, Halperin JL, Albert NM, et al. Management of patients with
peripheral artery disease (compilation of 2005 and 2011 ACCF/AHA Guideline
Recommendations): a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation._ 2013;127(13):1425-1443. PMID: 23457117
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23457117.

Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC Guideline on the
management of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease:
executive summary. _Vasc Med._ 22(3):NP1-NP43. PMID: 28494710
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28494710.

Bonaca MP, Creager MA. Peripheral artery diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 64.

Lockhart ME, Umphrey HR, Weber TM, Robbin ML. Peripheral vessels. In: Rumack
CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic Ultrasound._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

