Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003778.htm    
                                Description: A pregnancy ultrasound is an imaging test that uses sound waves to create a picture of how a baby is developing in the womb. It is also used to check the female pelvic organs during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ultrasound pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003778.htm

# Ultrasound pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pregnancy ultrasound is an imaging test that uses sound waves to create a
picture of how a baby is developing in the womb. It is also used to check the
female pelvic organs during pregnancy.

![Ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200128t.gif)Watch this
video about:Ultrasound

## How the Test is Performed

To have the procedure:

    * You will lie on your back on an exam table.
    * The person performing the test will spread a clear, water-based gel on your belly and pelvis area. A handheld probe will then be moved over the area. The gel helps the probe transmit sound waves.
    * These waves bounce off the body structures, including the developing baby, to create a picture on the ultrasound machine. 

In some cases, a pregnancy ultrasound may be done by placing the probe into
the vagina. This is more likely in early pregnancy, Many women will have the
length of their cervix measured by vaginal ultrasonography around 20 to 24
weeks of pregnancy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will need to have a full bladder to get the best ultrasound image. You may
be asked to drink 2 to 3 glasses of liquid an hour before the test. DO NOT
urinate before the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

There may be some discomfort from pressure on the full bladder. The conducting
gel may feel slightly cold and wet. You will not feel the ultrasound waves.

## Why the Test is Performed

An ultrasound may be done to determine if there is a problem with the
pregnancy, how far along the pregnancy is, or to take measurements and screen
for potential problems.

Talk to your health care provider to determine the most appropriate scanning
schedule for you.

A pregnancy ultrasound may be done during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy to:

    * Confirm a normal pregnancy
    * Determine the baby's age
    * Look for problems, such as ectopic pregnancies or the chances for a miscarriage
    * Determine the baby's heart rate
    * Look for multiple pregnancies (such as twins and triplets)
    * Identify problems of the placenta, uterus, cervix, and ovaries
    * Look for findings that might indicate an increased risk for Down syndrome

A pregnancy ultrasound may also be done in the second and third trimesters to:

    * Determine the baby's age, growth, position, and sometimes gender.
    * Identify any problems with how the fetus is developing.
    * Look for twins or triplets. Look at the placenta, amniotic fluid, and pelvis.

Some centers are now performing a pregnancy ultrasound called a nuchal
translucency screening test around 9 to 13 weeks of pregnancy. This test is
done to look for signs of Down syndrome or other problems in the developing
baby. This test is often combined with blood tests to improve the accuracy of
results.

How many ultrasounds you will need depends on whether a previous scan or blood
test has detected problems that require follow-up testing.

## Normal Results

The developing baby, placenta, amniotic fluid, and surrounding structures
appear normal for the gestational age.

Note: Normal results may vary slightly. Talk to your doctor about the meaning
of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal ultrasound results may be due to some of the following conditions:

    * Birth defects
    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Poor growth of a baby while in the mother's womb
    * Multiple pregnancies
    * Miscarriage
    * Problems with the baby's position in the womb
    * Problems with the placenta, including placenta previa and placental abruption
    * Too little amniotic fluid
    * Too much amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios)
    * Tumors of pregnancy, including gestational trophoblastic disease
    * Other problems with the ovaries, uterus, and remaining pelvic structures 

## Risks

Current ultrasound techniques appear to be safe. Ultrasound does not involve
radiation.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy sonogram; Obstetric ultrasonography; Obstetric sonogram; Ultrasound
- pregnancy; IUGR - ultrasound; Intrauterine growth - ultrasound;
Polyhydramnios - ultrasound; Oligohydramnios - ultrasound; Placenta previa -
ultrasound; Multiple pregnancy - ultrasound; Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy
- ultrasound; Fetal monitoring - ultrasound

## Images

    * ![Ultrasound in pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23223t.jpg)Ultrasound in pregnancy
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - abdomen measurements](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2252t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - abdomen measurements
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - arm and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2253t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - arm and legs
    * ![Ultrasound, normal placenta - Braxton Hicks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2254t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal placenta - Braxton Hicks
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2255t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - face
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - femur measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2256t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - femur measurement
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2257t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - foot
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - head measurements](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2258t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - head measurements
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2259t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - heartbeat
    * ![Ultrasound, ventricular septal defect - heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2260t.jpg)Ultrasound, ventricular septal defect - heartbeat
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2261t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs
    * ![Ultrasound, normal relaxed placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2262t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal relaxed placenta
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - profile view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2263t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - profile view
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - spine and ribs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2264t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - spine and ribs
    * ![Ultrasound, color - normal umbilical cord](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2265t.jpg)Ultrasound, color - normal umbilical cord
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2266t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain
    * ![Prenatal ultrasound - series - Procedure, part 1](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19178t.jpg)Prenatal ultrasound - series
    * ![3D ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23247t.jpg)3D ultrasound

## References

Lazarus E, Levine D. The first trimester. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds.
_Diagnostic Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 30.

Richards DS. Obstetric ultrasound: imaging, dating, growth, and anomaly. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Wapner RJ. Prenatal diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Creasy RK, Resnik
R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's
Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 30.

Wolf RB. Abdominal imaging. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ,
Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 24.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

