Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003797.htm    
                                Description: An eye and orbit ultrasound is a test to look at the eye area. It also measures the size and structures of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye and orbit ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003797.htm

# Eye and orbit ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An eye and orbit ultrasound is a test to look at the eye area. It also
measures the size and structures of the eye.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is most often done in the ophthalmologist's office or the
ophthalmology department of a hospital or clinic.

Your eye is numbed with medicine (anesthetic drops). The ultrasound wand
(transducer) is placed against the front surface of the eye.

The ultrasound uses high-frequency sound waves that travel through the eye.
Reflections (echoes) of the sound waves form a picture of the structure of the
eye. The test takes about 15 minutes.

There are 2 types of scans: A-scan and B-scan.

For the A-scan:

    * You will most often sit in a chair and place your chin on a chin rest. You will look straight ahead.
    * A small probe is placed against the front of your eye.
    * The test may also be done with you lying back. With this method, a fluid-filled cup is placed against your eye to do the test. 

For the B-scan:

    * You will be seated and you may be asked to look in many directions. The test is most often done with your eyes closed.
    * A gel is placed on the skin of your eyelids. The B-scan probe is gently placed against your eyelids to do the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

Your eye is numbed, so you should not have any discomfort. You may be asked to
look in different directions to improve the ultrasound image or so it can view
different areas of your eye.

The gel used with the B-scan may run down your cheek, but you will not feel
any discomfort or pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have cataracts or other eye problems.

An A-scan ultrasound measures the eye to determine the right power of a lens
implant before cataract surgery.

A B-scan is done to look at the inside part of the eye or the space behind the
eye that cannot be seen directly. This may occur when you have cataracts or
other conditions that make it hard for the doctor to see into the back of your
eye. The test may help diagnose retinal detachment, tumors, or other
disorders.

## Normal Results

For an A-scan, measurements of the eye are in the normal range.

For a B-scan, the structures of the eye and orbit appear normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A B-scan may show:

    * Bleeding into the clear gel (vitreous) that fills the back of the eye (vitreous hemorrhage)
    * Cancer of the retina (retinoblastoma), under the retina, or in other parts of the eye (such as melanoma)
    * Damaged tissue or injuries in the bony socket (orbit) that surrounds and protects the eye
    * Foreign bodies
    * Pulling away of the retina from the back of the eye (retinal detachment)
    * Swelling (inflammation) 

## Risks

To avoid scratching the cornea, do not rub the numbed eye until the anesthetic
wears off (about 15 minutes). There are no other risks.

## Alternative Names

Echography - eye orbit; Ultrasound - eye orbit; Ocular ultrasonography;
Orbital ultrasonography

## Images

    * ![Head and eye echoencephalogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9362t.jpg)Head and eye echoencephalogram

## References

Fisher YL, Sebrow DB. Contact B-scan ultrasonography. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.5.

Guthoff RF, Labriola LT, Stachs O. Diagnostic ophthalmic ultrasound. In:
Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's
Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

Thust SC, Miszkiel K, Davagnanam I. Orbit. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 66.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

