Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003869.htm    
                                Description: An echocardiogram is a test that uses sound waves to create pictures of the heart. The picture and information it produces is more detailed than a standard x-ray image. An echocardiogram does not expose    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Echocardiogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003869.htm

# Echocardiogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An echocardiogram is a test that uses sound waves to create pictures of the
heart. The picture and information it produces is more detailed than a
standard x-ray image. An echocardiogram does not expose you to radiation.

## How the Test is Performed

TRANSTHORACIC ECHOCARDIOGRAM (TTE)

TTE is the type of echocardiogram that most people will have.

    * A trained sonographer performs the test. A heart doctor (cardiologist) interprets the results.
    * An instrument called a transducer is placed on various locations on your chest and upper abdomen and directed toward the heart. This device releases high-frequency sound waves.
    * The transducer picks up the echoes of sound waves and transmits them as electrical impulses. The echocardiography machine converts these impulses into moving pictures of the heart. Still pictures are also taken.
    * Pictures can be two-dimensional or three-dimensional. The type of picture will depend on the part of the heart being evaluated and the type of machine.
    * A Doppler echocardiogram evaluates the motion of blood through the heart. 

An echocardiogram shows the heart while it is beating. It also shows the heart
valves and other structures.

In some cases, your lungs, ribs, or body tissue may prevent the sound waves
and echoes from providing a clear picture of heart function. If this is a
problem, the health care provider may inject a small amount of liquid
(contrast) through an IV to better see the inside of the heart.

Rarely, more invasive testing using special echocardiography probes may be
needed.

TRANSESOPHAGEAL ECHOCARDIOGRAM (TEE)

For a TEE, the back of your throat is numbed and a long flexible but firm tube
(called a "probe") which has a small ultrasound transducer at the end is
inserted down your throat.

A heart doctor with special training will guide the scope down the esophagus
and into the stomach. This method is used to get clearer echocardiographic
images of your heart. The provider may use this test to look for signs of
infection (endocarditis) blood clots (thrombi), or other abnormal structures
or connections.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed before a TTE test. If you are having a TEE, you
will not be able to eat or drink for several hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

During the test:

    * You will need to take off your clothes from the waist up and lie on an exam table on your back.
    * Electrodes will be placed on your chest to monitor your heart beat.
    * A small amount of gel is spread on your chest and the transducer will be moved over your skin. You will feel a slight pressure on your chest from the transducer.
    * You may be asked to breathe in a certain way or to roll over onto your left side. Sometimes, a special bed is used to help you stay in the proper position.
    * If you are having a TEE, you will receive some sedating (relaxing) medicines prior to having the probe inserted and a numbing fluid may be sprayed in the back of your throat.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to evaluate the valves and chambers of the heart from the
outside of your body. The echocardiogram can help detect:

    * Abnormal heart valves
    * Congenital heart disease (abnormalities present at birth)
    * Damage to the heart muscle from a heart attack
    * Heart murmurs
    * Inflammation (pericarditis) or fluid in the sac around the heart (pericardial effusion)
    * Infection on or around the heart valves (infectious endocarditis)
    * Pulmonary hypertension
    * Ability of the heart to pump (for people with heart failure)
    * Source of a blood clot after a stroke or TIA

Your provider may recommend a TEE if:

    * The regular (or TTE) is unclear. Unclear results may be due to the shape of your chest, lung disease, or excess body fat.
    * An area of the heart needs to be looked at in more detail. 

## Normal Results

A normal echocardiogram reveals normal heart valves and chambers and normal
heart wall movement.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal echocardiogram can mean many things. Some abnormalities are very
minor and do not pose major risks. Other abnormalities are signs of serious
heart disease. You will need more tests by a specialist in this case. It is
very important to talk about the results of your echocardiogram with your
provider.

## Risks

There are no known risks from an external TTE test.

TEE is an invasive procedure. There is some risk associated with the test.
These may include:

    * Reaction to the sedating medicines.
    * Damage to the esophagus. This is more common if you already have a problem with your esophagus.

Talk with your provider about the risks associated with this test.

## Considerations

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Heart valve disease
    * Cardiomyopathy
    * Pericardial effusion
    * Other heart abnormalities

This test is used to evaluate and monitor many different heart conditions.

## Alternative Names

Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE); Echocardiogram - transthoracic; Doppler
ultrasound of the heart; Surface echo

## Images

    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Otto CM. Echocardiography. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 55.

Solomon SD, Wu JC, Gillam L, Bulwer B. Echocardiography. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 14.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

