Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007667.htm    
                                Description: A pelvic (transabdominal) ultrasound is an imaging test. It is used to examine organs in the pelvis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic ultrasound - abdominal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007667.htm

# Pelvic ultrasound - abdominal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pelvic (transabdominal) ultrasound is an imaging test. It is used to examine
organs in the pelvis.

## How the Test is Performed

During the procedure, you will lie on your back on the table. Your health care
provider will apply a clear gel on your abdomen.

Your provider will place a probe (transducer), over the gel, rubbing back and
forth across your belly:

    * The probe sends out sound waves, which go through the gel and reflect off body structures. A computer receives these waves and uses them to create a picture.
    * Your provider can see the picture on a TV monitor. 

Depending on the reason for the test, women also may have a transvaginal
ultrasound during the same visit.

## How to Prepare for the Test

A pelvic ultrasound may be done with a full bladder. Having a full bladder can
help with looking at organs, such as the womb (uterus), within your pelvis.
You may be asked to drink a few glasses of water to fill your bladder. You
should wait until after the test to urinate.

## How the Test will Feel

The test is painless and easy to tolerate. The conducting gel may feel a
little cold and wet.

## Why the Test is Performed

A pelvic ultrasound is used during pregnancy to check the baby.

A pelvic ultrasound also may be done for the following:

    * Cysts, fibroid tumors, or other growths or masses in the pelvis found when your doctor examines you
    * Bladder growths or other problems
    * Kidney stones
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease, an infection of a woman's uterus, ovaries, or tubes
    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding
    * Menstrual problems
    * Problems becoming pregnant (infertility)
    * Normal pregnancy
    * Ectopic pregnancy, a pregnancy that occurs outside the uterus
    * Pelvic pain 

Pelvic ultrasound is also used during a biopsy to help guide the needle.

## Normal Results

The pelvic structures or fetus are normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be due to many conditions. Some problems that may be
seen include:

    * Abscess in the ovaries, fallopian tubes, or pelvis
    * Birth defects of the womb or vagina
    * Cancers of the bladder, cervix, uterus, ovaries, vagina, and other pelvic structures
    * Growths in or around the uterus and ovaries (such as cysts or fibroids)
    * Twisting of the ovaries
    * Enlarged lymph nodes

## Risks

There are no known harmful effects of pelvic ultrasound. Unlike x-rays, there
is no radiation exposure with this test.

## Alternative Names

Ultrasound pelvis; Pelvic ultrasonography; Pelvic sonography; Pelvic scan;
Lower abdomen ultrasound; Gynecologic ultrasound; Transabdominal ultrasound

## References

Benacerraf BR, Goldstein SR, Groszmann YS. Normal pelvic ultrasound and common
normal variants. In: Benacerraf BR, Goldstein SR, Groszmann YS, eds.
_Gynecologic Ultrasound: A Problem-Based Approach_. Philadelphia. PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:221-233.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Stolz L, Adhikari S. Point-of-care pelvic ultrasound. In: Lumb P, Karakitsos
D, eds. _Critical Care Ultrasound_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 43.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

