Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007266.htm    
                                Description: Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is a diagnostic test. This test uses sound waves to see inside blood vessels. It is useful for evaluating the coronary arteries that supply the heart.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intravascular ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007266.htm

# Intravascular ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is a diagnostic test. This test uses sound
waves to see inside blood vessels. It is useful for evaluating the coronary
arteries that supply the heart.

## Description

A tiny ultrasound wand is attached to the top of a thin tube. This tube is
called a catheter. The catheter is inserted into an artery in your groin area
and moved up to the heart. It is different from conventional Duplex
ultrasound. Duplex ultrasound is done from the outside of your body by placing
the transducer on the skin.

A computer measures how the sound waves reflect off blood vessels, and changes
the sound waves into pictures. IVUS gives the health care provider a look at
your coronary arteries from the inside-out.

IVUS is almost always doneÂ during a procedure. Reasons why it may be done
include:

    * Getting information about the heart or its blood vessels or to find out if you need heart surgery
    * Treating some types of heart conditions

Angiography gives a general look at the coronary arteries. However, it can't
show the walls of the arteries. IVUS images show the artery walls and can
reveal cholesterol and fat deposits (plaques). Buildup of these deposits can
increase your risk of a heart attack.

IVUS has helped providers understand how stents become clogged. This is called
stent restenosis.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

IVUS is commonly done to make sure a stent is correctly placed during
angioplasty. It may also be done to determine where a stent should be placed.

IVUS may also be used to:

    * View the aorta and structure of the artery walls, which can show plaque buildup
    * Find which blood vessel is involved in aortic dissection

## Risks

There is a slight risk of complications with angioplasty and cardiac
catheterization. However, the tests are very safe when done by an experienced
team. IVUS adds little additional risk.

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection 

Other risks include:

    * Damage to a heart valve or blood vessel
    * Heart attack
    * Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)
    * Kidney failure (a higher risk in people who already have kidney problems or diabetes)
    * Stroke (this is rare)

## After the Procedure

After the test, the catheter is completely removed. A bandage is placed on the
area. You will be asked to lie flat on your back with pressure on your groin
area for a few hours after the test to prevent bleeding.

If IVUS was done during:

    * Cardiac catheterization: You will stay in the hospital for about 3 to 6 hours.
    * Angioplasty: You will stay in the hospital for 12 to 24 hours. 

The IVUS does not add to the time you must stay in the hospital.

## Alternative Names

IVUS; Ultrasound - coronary artery; Endovascular ultrasound; Intravascular
echocardiography

## Images

    * ![Anterior heart arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9367t.jpg)Anterior heart arteries
    * ![Conduction system of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18052t.jpg)Conduction system of the heart
    * ![Coronary angiography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18129t.jpg)Coronary angiography

## References

Honda Y, Fitzgerald PJ, Yock PG. Intravascular ultrasound. In: Topol EJ,
Teirstein PS, eds. _Textbook of Interventional Cardiology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 60.

Yammine H, Ballast JK, Arko FR. Intravascular ultrasound. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 30.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

