Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007646.htm    
                                Description: Endoscopic ultrasound is a type of imaging test. It is used to see organs in and near the digestive tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endoscopic ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007646.htm

# Endoscopic ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endoscopic ultrasound is a type of imaging test. It is used to see organs in
and near the digestive tract.

## How the Test is Performed

Ultrasound is a way to see the inside of the body using high-frequency sound
waves. Endoscopic ultrasound does this with a thin, flexible tube called an
endoscope.

    * This tube is passed either through the mouth or through the rectum and into the digestive tract.
    * Sound waves are sent out the end of the tube and bounce off the organs in the body.
    * A computer receives these waves and uses them to create a picture of what is inside.
    * This test does not expose you to harmful radiation. 

If a sample or biopsy is needed, a thin needle can be passed through the tube
to collect fluid or tissue. This does not hurt.

The test takes 30 to 90 minutes to complete.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will tell you what to do. You will be told when to
stop drinking and eating before the test.

Give your provider a list of all the medicines you take (prescription and
over-the-counter), herbs, and supplements. You will be told when you can take
these. Some need to be stopped a week before the test. Ask your provider which
medicines you should take on the morning of surgery.

Since you will not be able to drive or return to work on the day of this test,
you will need someone to take you home.

## How the Test will Feel

Before this test you will get medicine through an IV to help you relax (a
sedative). You may fall asleep or not remember the test. Some people feel the
test is slightly uncomfortable.

For the first hour after this test, you may feel sleepy and unable to drink or
walk. You may have a sore throat. Air or carbon dioxide gas may have been put
in your digestive tract during the test to move the tube more easily. This may
make you feel bloated, but this feeling will go away.

When you are fully awake, you can be taken home. Rest that day. You may have
fluids and light meals.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test to:

    * Find the cause of abdominal pain
    * Find the cause of weight loss
    * Diagnose diseases of the pancreas, bile duct, and gallbladder
    * Guide a biopsy of tumors, lymph nodes, and other tissue
    * Look at cysts, tumors, and cancers
    * Look for stones in the bile duct 

This test can also stage cancers of the:

    * Esophagus
    * Stomach
    * Pancreas
    * Rectum

## Normal Results

The organs will appear normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The results depend on what is found during the test. If you DO NOT understand
the results, or have questions or concerns, talk to your provider.

## Risks

Risks for any sedation are:

    * Reactions to medicine
    * Problems breathing 

Complications from this test include:

    * Bleeding
    * A tear in the lining of the digestive tract
    * Infection
    * Pancreatitis 

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Huang CS, Wolfe MM. Endoscopic and imaging procedures. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs
RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG, eds. _Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of
Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

Lee LS. Endoscopic ultrasound. In: McNalley PR, ed. _GI/Liver Secrets Plus_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 71.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Upper GI Endoscopy. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diagnostic-
tests/upper-gi-endoscopy. Updated July 2017. Accessed July 19, 2018.

Pasricha PJ. Gastrointestinal endoscopy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 134.

Samarasena JB, Chang K, Topazian M. Endoscopic ultrasound and fine-needle
aspiration for pancreatic and biliary disorders. In: Chandrasekhara V,
Elmunzer BJ, Khashab MA, Muthusamy VR, eds. _Clinical Gastrointestinal
Endoscopy_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 51.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

