Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003433.htm    
                                Description: A duplex ultrasound is a test to see how blood moves through your arteries and veins.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Duplex ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003433.htm

# Duplex ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A duplex ultrasound is a test to see how blood moves through your arteries and
veins.

## How the Test is Performed

A duplex ultrasound combines:

    * Traditional ultrasound: This uses sound waves that bounce off blood vessels to create pictures.
    * Doppler ultrasound: This records sound waves reflecting off moving objects, such as blood, to measure their speed and other aspects of how they flow. 

There are different types of duplex ultrasound exams. Some include:

    * Arterial and venous duplex ultrasound of the abdomen. This test examines blood vessels and blood flow in the abdominal area.
    * Carotid duplex ultrasound looks at the carotid artery in the neck.
    * Duplex ultrasound of the extremities looks at the arms or legs.
    * Renal duplex ultrasound examines the kidneys and their blood vessels. 

You may need to wear a medical gown. You will lie down on a table, and the
ultrasound technician will spread a gel over the area being tested. The gel
helps the sound waves get into your tissues.

A wand, called a transducer, is moved over the area being tested. This wand
sends out the sound waves. A computer measures how the sound waves reflect
back, and changes the sound waves into pictures. The Doppler creates a
"swishing" sound, which is the sound of your blood moving through the arteries
and veins.

You need to stay still during the exam. You may be asked to lie in different
body positions, or to take a deep breath and hold it.

Sometimes during a duplex ultrasound of the legs, the health care provider may
calculate an ankle-brachial index (ABI). You will need to wear blood pressure
cuffs on your arms and legs for this test.

The ABI number is obtained by dividing the blood pressure in the ankle by the
blood pressure in the arm. A value of 0.9 or greater is normal.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Usually, there is no preparation for this test.

If you are having an ultrasound of your stomach area, you may be asked not to
eat or drink after midnight. Tell the person doing the ultrasound exam if you
are taking any medicines, such as blood thinners. These might affect the
results of the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some pressure as the wand is moved over the body, but there is no
discomfort most of the time.

## Why the Test is Performed

A duplex ultrasound can show how blood flows to many parts of the body. It can
also tell the width of a blood vessel and reveal any blockages. This test is a
less invasive option than arteriography and venography.

A duplex ultrasound can help diagnose the following conditions:

    * Abdominal aneurysm
    * Arterial occlusion
    * Blood clot
    * Carotid occlusive disease (See: Carotid duplex)
    * Renal vascular disease
    * Varicose veins
    * Venous insufficiency

A renal duplex ultrasound can also be used after transplant surgery. This
shows how well a new kidney is working.

## Normal Results

A normal result is normal blood flow through the veins and arteries. There is
normal blood pressure and no sign of a narrowing or blockage of a blood
vessel.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result depends on the specific area being examined. An abnormal
result may be due to a blood clot or plaque buildup in a blood vessel.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

Smoking may change the results of an ultrasound of the arms and legs. This
happens because nicotine can cause the arteries to shrink (constrict).

## Alternative Names

Vascular ultrasound; Peripheral vascular ultrasound

## Patient Instructions

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Duplex/doppler ultrasound test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9284t.jpg)Duplex/doppler ultrasound test

## References

Bonaca MP, Creager MA. Peripheral artery diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 64.

Freischlag JA, Heller JA. Venous disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Goldstein LB. Approach to cerebrovascular diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 406.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

