Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003336.htm    
                                Description: Ultrasound uses high-frequency sound waves to make images of organs and structures inside the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003336.htm

# Ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ultrasound uses high-frequency sound waves to make images of organs and
structures inside the body.

## How the Test is Performed

An ultrasound machine makes images so that organs inside the body can be
examined. The machine sends out high-frequency sound waves, which reflect off
body structures. A computer receives the waves and uses them to create a
picture. Unlike with an x-ray or CT scan, this test does not use ionizing
radiation.

The test is done in the ultrasound or radiology department.

    * You will lie down for the test.
    * A clear, water-based gel is applied to the skin on the area to be examined. The gel helps with the transmission of the sound waves.
    * A handheld probe called a transducer is moved over the area being examined. You may need to change position so that other areas can be examined. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your preparation will depend on the part of the body being examined.

## How the Test will Feel

Most of the time, ultrasound procedures do not cause discomfort. The
conducting gel may feel a little cold and wet.

## Why the Test is Performed

The reason for the test will depend on your symptoms. An ultrasound test may
be used to identify problems involving:

    * Arteries in the neck
    * Veins or arteries in the arms or legs
    * Pregnancy
    * Pelvis
    * Abdomen and kidneys
    * Breast
    * Thyroid
    * Eye and orbit

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if the organs and structures being examined look
OK.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The meaning of abnormal results will depend on the part of the body being
examined and the problem found. Talk to your health care provider about your
questions and concerns.

## Risks

There are no known risks. The test does not use ionizing radiation.

## Considerations

Some types of ultrasound tests need to be done with a probe that is inserted
into your body. Talk to your provider about how your test will be done.

## Alternative Names

Sonogram

## Images

    * ![Abdominal ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1058t.jpg)Abdominal ultrasound
    * ![Ultrasound in pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1110t.jpg)Ultrasound in pregnancy
    * ![17 week ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18040t.jpg)17 week ultrasound
    * ![30 week ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18041t.jpg)30 week ultrasound
    * ![Carotid duplex](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18051t.jpg)Carotid duplex
    * ![Thyroid ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18056t.jpg)Thyroid ultrasound
    * ![Ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18057t.jpg)Ultrasound
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18058t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain
    * ![3D ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23247t.jpg)3D ultrasound

## References

Butts C. Ultrasound. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

Merritt CRB. Physics of ultrasound. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic
Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

Cosgrove DO, Eckersley RJ, Harvey CJ, Lim A. Ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2015:chap 3.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

