Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000203.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital to treat ulcerative colitis. This is a swelling (inflammation) of the inner lining of your colon and rectum (also called your large intestine). This article tells you how to take    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ulcerative colitis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000203.htm

# Ulcerative colitis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital to treat ulcerative colitis. This is a swelling
(inflammation) of the inner lining of your colon and rectum (also called your
large intestine). This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you
return home.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were in the hospital because you have ulcerative colitis. This is a
swelling of the inner lining of your colon and rectum (also called your large
intestine). It damages the lining, causing it to bleed or ooze mucus or pus.

You probably received fluids through an intravenous (IV) tube in your vein.
You may have received a blood transfusion, nutrition through a feeding tube or
IV, and medicines to help stop diarrhea. You may have been given medicines to
reduce swelling, prevent or fight infection, or help your immune system.

You may have undergone a colonoscopy. You also may have had surgery. If so,
you may have had either an ileostomy or colon resection (colectomy).

## What to Expect at Home

Most people will have long breaks between flare-ups of their ulcerative
colitis if they take their prescribed medicines.

## Self-care

When you first go home, you will need to drink only liquids or eat different
foods from what you normally eat. Ask your health care provider when you can
start your regular diet. You should eat a well-balanced, healthy diet. It is
important that you get enough calories, protein, and nutrients from a variety
of food groups.

Certain foods and drinks can make your symptoms worse. These foods may cause
problems for you all the time or only during a flare-up. Avoid foods that make
your symptoms worse.

    * Too much fiber may make your symptoms worse. Try baking or stewing fruits and vegetables if eating them raw bothers you.
    * Avoid foods that are known to cause gas, such as beans, spicy food, cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, raw fruit juices, and fruit (especially citrus fruits). Avoid or limit alcohol and caffeine. They may make your diarrhea worse. 

Eat smaller meals, and eat more often. Drink plenty of liquids.

Ask your provider about extra vitamins and minerals you may need, including:

    * Iron supplements (if you are anemic)
    * Nutrition supplements
    * Calcium and vitamin D supplements to help keep your bones strong 

Talk with a dietitian, especially if you lose weight or your diet becomes very
limited.

## Stress

You may feel worried about having a bowel accident, embarrassed, or even feel
sad or depressed. Other stressful events in your life, such as moving, job
loss, or the loss of a loved one, can cause problems with your digestion.

These tips may help you manage your ulcerative colitis:

    * Join a support group. Ask your provider about groups in your area.
    * Exercise. Talk with your provider about an exercise plan that is right for you.
    * Try biofeedback to reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate, deep breathing exercises, hypnosis, or other ways to relax. Examples include doing yoga, listening to music, reading, or soaking in a warm bath.
    * See a mental health care provider for help. 

## Drug Treatments

Your provider may give you some medicines to help relieve your symptoms. Based
on how severe your ulcerative colitis is and how you respond to treatment, you
may need to take one or more of these medicines:

    * Anti-diarrhea drugs can help when you have very bad diarrhea. You can buy loperamide (Imodium) without a prescription. Always talk to your provider before using these drugs.
    * Fiber supplements may help your symptoms. You can buy psyllium powder (Metamucil) or methylcellulose (Citrucel) without a prescription.
    * Always talk to your provider before using any laxative medicines.
    * You may use acetaminophen (Tylenol) for mild pain. Drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) may make your symptoms worse. Talk to your provider before taking these medicines. You may also need a prescription for stronger pain medicines. 

There are many types of drugs your provider may use to prevent or treat
attacks of your ulcerative colitis.

## Follow-up

Your ongoing care will be based on your needs. Your provider will tell you
when to return for an exam of the inside of your rectum and colon through a
flexible tube (sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy).

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Cramps or pain in your lower stomach area
    * Bloody diarrhea, often with mucus or pus
    * Diarrhea that cannot be controlled with diet changes and drugs
    * Rectal bleeding, drainage, or sores
    * Fever that lasts more than 2 or 3 days, or a fever higher than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) without an explanation
    * Nausea and vomiting that lasts more than a day
    * Skin sores or lesions that do not heal
    * Joint pain that keeps you from doing your everyday activities
    * A feeling of having little warning before you need to have a bowel movement
    * A need to wake up from sleeping to have a bowel movement
    * Failure to gain weight, a concern for a growing infant or child
    * Side effects from any drugs prescribed for your condition 

## Alternative Names

Inflammatory bowel disease - discharge; Ulcerative proctitis - discharge;
Colitis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Inflammatory bowel disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19219t.jpg)Inflammatory bowel disease

## References

Atallah CI, Efron JE, Fang SH. The management of chronic ulcerative colitis.
In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:154-161.

Dassopoulos T, Sultan S, Falck-Ytter YT, Inadomi JM, Hanauer SB. American
Gastroenterological Association Institute technical review on the use of
thiopurines, methotrexate, and anti-tnf-a biologic drugs for the induction and
maintenance of remission in inflammatory Crohn's disease. _Gastroenterology_.
2013;145(6):1464-1478. PMID: 24267475 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24267475.

Kornbluth A, Sachar DB; Practice Parameters Committee of the American College
of Gastroenterology. Ulcerative colitis practice guidelines in adults:
American College Of Gastroenterology, Practice Parameters Committee. _Am J
Gastroenterol_. 2010;105(3):501-523. PMID: 20068560
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20068560.

Osterman MT, Lichtenstein GR. Ulcerative colitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

Swaroop PP. Inflammatory bowel disease: Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis.
In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:224-230.

## Read More

    * Black or tarry stools
    * Colon cancer screening
    * Ileostomy
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
    * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Jejunostomy feeding tube 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet

## Review Date 11/1/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ulcerative Colitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

