Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000936.htm    
                                Description: Your child was in the hospital because he has ulcerative colitis (UC). This is swelling of the inner lining of the colon and rectum (large intestine). It damages the lining, causing it to bleed or ooze    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ulcerative Colitis - children - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000936.htm

# Ulcerative Colitis - children - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child was in the hospital because he has ulcerative colitis (UC). This is
swelling of the inner lining of the colon and rectum (large intestine). It
damages the lining, causing it to bleed or ooze mucus or pus.

Your child probably received fluids through an intravenous (IV) tube in his
vein. They may have received:

    * A blood transfusion
    * Nutrition through a feeding tube or IV
    * Medicines to help stop diarrhea 

Your child may have been given medicines to reduce swelling, prevent or fight
infection, or help the immune system.

Your child may have had surgery, such as:

    * Removal of colon (colectomy)
    * Removal of the large intestine and most of the rectum
    * Placement of an ileostomy

## What to Expect at Home

Your child will likely have long breaks between flare-ups of ulcerative
colitis.

## Your Child's Diet

When your child first goes home, they will need to drink only liquids or eat
different foods from what they normally eat. Follow the instructions given by
your child's health care provider. Ask the provider when you can start your
child's regular diet.

You should give your child:

    * A well-balanced, healthy diet. It is important that your child get enough calories, protein, and nutrients from a variety of food groups.
    * A diet low in saturated fats and sugar.
    * Small, frequent meals and plenty of liquids.

Certain foods and drinks can make your child's symptoms worse. These foods may
cause problems for them all the time or only during a flare-up.

Try to avoid the following foods that can make your child's symptoms worse:

    * Too much fiber may make symptoms worse. Try baking or stewing fruits and vegetables if eating them raw bothers them.
    * Avoid giving foods that are known to cause gas, such as beans, spicy food, cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, raw fruit juices, and fruits, especially citrus fruits.
    * Avoid or limit caffeine, as it may make diarrhea worse. Foods such as some sodas, energy drinks, tea, and chocolate can contain caffeine.

Ask the provider about extra vitamins and minerals your child may need,
including:

    * Iron supplements (if they are anemic)
    * Nutrition supplements
    * Calcium and vitamin D supplements to help keep their bones strong

Talk with a dietitian to make sure your child is getting proper nutrition. Be
sure to do this if your child has lost weight or their diet becomes very
limited.

## Managing Stress

Your child may feel worried about having a bowel accident, embarrassed, or
even feel sad or depressed. He may find it difficult to participate in
activities at school. You can support your child and help them understand how
to live with the disease.

These tips can help you manage your child's ulcerative colitis:

    * Try to talk openly with your child. Answer their questions about their condition.
    * Help your child be active. Talk with your child's provider about exercises and activities that they can do.
    * Simple things such as doing yoga or tai chi, listening to music, reading, meditation, or soaking in a warm bath can relax your child and help reduce stress.
    * Be alert if your child is losing interest in school, friends, and activities. If you think your child may be depressed, talk with a mental health counselor. 

You may want to join a support group to help you and your child manage the
disease. Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA) is one of such groups.
CCFA offers a list of resources, a database of doctors who specialize in
treating Crohn disease, information about local support groups, and a website
for teens -- www.crohnscolitisfoundation.org.

## Medicines

Your child's provider may give them some medicines to help relieve their
symptoms. Based on how severe their ulcerative colitis is and how they respond
to treatment, they may need to take one or more of these medicines:

    * Anti-diarrhea drugs can help when she has bad diarrhea. You can buy loperamide (Imodium) without a prescription. Always talk to their provider before using these drugs.
    * Fiber supplements may help their symptoms. You can buy psyllium powder (Metamucil) or methylcellulose (Citrucel) without a prescription.
    * Always talk to your child's provider before using any laxative medicines.
    * You may use acetaminophen for mild pain. Drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen may make their symptoms worse. Talk to their provider before taking these medicines. Your child may also need a prescription for stronger pain medicines.

There are many types of drugs available to prevent or treat attacks of your
child's ulcerative colitis.

## Follow-up

Your child's ongoing care will be based on their needs. The provider will tell
you when your child should return for an exam of the inside of their rectum
and colon through a flexible tube (sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy).

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your child has:

    * Cramps or pain in lower stomach area that do not go away
    * Bloody diarrhea, often with mucus or pus
    * Diarrhea that cannot be controlled with diet changes and drugs
    * Rectal bleeding, drainage, or sores
    * New rectal pain
    * Fever that lasts more than 2 or 3 days or a fever higher than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) without an explanation
    * Nausea and vomiting that lasts more than a day vomit has a bit of yellow/green color
    * Skin sores or lesions that do not heal
    * Joint pain that keeps your child from doing everyday activities
    * A feeling of having little warning before needing to have a bowel movement
    * A need to wake up from sleeping to have a bowel movement
    * Failure to gain weight, a concern for your growing infant or child
    * Side effects from any drugs prescribed for your child's condition 

## Alternative Names

UC - children; Inflammatory bowel disease in children - UC; Ulcerative
proctitis - children; Colitis in children - UC

## References

Bitton S, Markowitz JF. Ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents. In:
Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 43.

Grossman AB, Baldassano RN. Inflammatory bowel disease. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 336.

## Review Date 6/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ulcerative Colitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

