

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Zika Virus

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Questions About Zika

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What is Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How do people get infected with Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What health problems can result from getting Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Should pregnant women travel to areas with risk of Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If I am traveling to an area with risk of Zika, should I be concerned about Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What can people do to prevent Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What are the symptoms of Zika virus disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How is Zika diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can someone who returned from an area with risk of Zika get tested for the virus?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What should pregnant women who have recently traveled to an area with risk of Zika do?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * I am not pregnant, but will my future pregnancies be at risk if I am infected with Zika virus?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * I was in a place with risk of Zika recently. How long do I need to wait after returning to get pregnant?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which insect repellents work best to prevent infections caused by mosquito bites?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How should insect repellents be used on children to prevent mosquito bites and the viruses that some mosquitoes can spread?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Is it safe for infants or children to travel to an area with risk of Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What should I do if I am sick, or a family member is sick, with Zika?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Should we be concerned about Zika in the United States?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What is CDC doing about Zika?

## Q: What is Zika?

**A:** Zika virus disease is caused by the Zika virus, which is spread to
people primarily through the bite of an infected mosquito ( _Aedes aegypti_
and _Aedes albopictus_ ). The illness is usually mild with symptoms lasting up
to a week, and many people do not have symptoms or will have only mild
symptoms. However, Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause a serious
birth defect called microcephaly and other severe brain defects.



## Q: How do people get infected with Zika?

**A:** Zika is spread to people primarily through the bite of an infected
_Aedes_ species mosquito ( _Aedes aegypti_ and _Aedes albopictus_ ). A
pregnant woman can pass Zika to her fetus during pregnancy or around the time
of birth. Also, a person with Zika can pass it to his or her sex partners. We
encourage people who have traveled to or live in places with risk of Zika to
protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites and sexual transmission of
Zika.



## Q: What health problems can result from getting Zika?

**A:** Many people infected with Zika will have no symptoms or mild symptoms
that last several days to a week. However, Zika infection during pregnancy can
cause a serious birth defect called microcephaly and other severe fetal brain
defects. Current research suggests that Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS), an
uncommon sickness of the nervous system, is strongly associated with Zika;
however, only a small proportion of people with recent Zika virus infection
get GBS.

Once someone has been infected with Zika, it's very likely they'll be
protected from future infections. There is no evidence that past Zika
infection poses an increased risk of birth defects in future pregnancies.



## Q: Should pregnant women travel to areas with risk of Zika?

**A:** Pregnant women should NOT travel to areas with Zika outbreaks (as
indicated by red areas on Zika map). Before traveling to other areas with
current or past spread of Zika (as indicated by purple areas on Zika map),
pregnant women should discuss their travel plans with a doctor. Travelers who
go to places with outbreaks or past or current spread (as indicated by red or
purple areas on Zika map) can be infected with Zika. Zika infection during
pregnancy can cause microcephaly and other severe brain defects.



## Q: If I am traveling to an area with risk of Zika, should I be concerned
about Zika?

**A:** Yes. Travelers who go to places with Zika outbreaks (as indicated by
red areas on Zika map) or with current or past spread of Zika (as indicated by
purple areas on Zika map) might be at risk of infection with Zika. Pregnant
women and couples trying to become pregnant within 3 months of travel should
work with their healthcare providers to carefully consider the risks and
possible consequences of travel. Zika travel notices are posted when there is
an outbreak. Because Zika can cause microcephaly and other severe birth
defects, pregnant women should NOT travel to any area with a Zika outbreak (as
indicated by red areas on Zika map). Women trying to get pregnant should talk
to their healthcare providers to carefully consider the risks and possible
consequences of Zika infection before traveling to areas reporting current or
past spread of Zika (as indicated by purple areas on Zika map), but no current
outbreak. Those traveling to areas with Zika outbreaks or with current or past
spread of Zika should take steps during and after they travel to prevent
mosquito bites and sexual transmission of Zika.



## Q: What can people do to prevent Zika?

**A:** The best way to prevent Zika is to protect yourself and your family
from mosquito bites:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellentsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sleep under a mosquito bed net if air conditioned or screened rooms are not available or if sleeping outdoors.

Zika can be spread by a person infected with Zika to his or her sex partners.
Condoms can reduce the chance of getting Zika from sex. Condoms include male
and female condoms. To be effective, condoms should be used from start to
finish, every time during vaginal, anal, and oral sex and the sharing of sex
toys. Not having sex eliminates the risk of getting Zika from sex. Pregnant
couples with a partner who traveled to or lives in an area with risk of Zika
should use condoms every time they have sex or not have sex during the
pregnancy.



## Q: What are the symptoms of Zika virus disease?

**A:** The most common symptoms of Zika virus disease are fever, rash,
headache, joint pain, red eyes, and muscle pain. Many people infected with
Zika won't have symptoms or will have mild symptoms, which can last for
several days to a week.



## Q: How is Zika diagnosed?

**A:** To diagnose Zika, your doctor will ask you about recent travel and
symptoms you may have, and collect blood or urine to test for Zika or similar
viruses.



## Q: Can someone who returned from an area with risk of Zika get tested for
the virus?

**A:** Zika virus testing is performed at CDC and some state and territorial
health departments. See your doctor if you have Zika symptoms and have
recently been in an area with risk of Zika. Your doctor may order tests to
look for Zika or similar viruses like dengue and chikungunya.



## Q: What should pregnant women who have recently traveled to an area with
risk of Zika do?

**A:** Pregnant women who have recently traveled to an area with risk of Zika
should talk to their doctor about their travel, even if they don't feel sick.
Pregnant women should see a doctor if they have any Zika symptoms during their
trip or after traveling. All pregnant women can protect themselves by avoiding
travel to an area with risk of Zika, preventing mosquito bites, and following
recommended precautions against getting Zika through sex.



## Q: I am not pregnant, but will my future pregnancies be at risk if I am
infected with Zika virus?

A: Currently, there is no evidence that a woman who has recovered from Zika
virus infection (the virus has cleared her body) will have Zika-related
pregnancy complications in the future. Based on information about similar
infections, once a person has been infected with Zika virus and has cleared
the virus from his or her body, he or she is likely to be protected from
future Zika infections.

If you're thinking about having a baby in the near future and you or your
partner live in or traveled to an area with risk of Zika, talk with your
doctor or other healthcare provider. See Women & Their Partners Trying to
Become Pregnant.



## Q: I was in a place with risk of Zika recently. How long do I need to wait
after returning to get pregnant?

A: Men who have traveled to areas with risk of Zika should wait at least 3
months after travel (or 3 months after symptoms started if they get sick)
before trying to conceive with their partner. Women should wait at least 2
months after travel (or 2 months after symptoms started if they get sick)
before trying to get pregnant. The waiting period is longer for men because
Zika stays in semen longer than in other body fluids.



## Q: Which insect repellents work best to prevent infections caused by
mosquito bites?

A: To prevent Zika and other diseases spread by mosquitoes, use Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellentsexternal icon on exposed
skin. The insect repellent should include one of the following ingredients:
DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus, para-menthane-diol, or
2-undecanone. Higher percentages of active ingredient provide longer
protection. Always follow the label instructions when using insect repellent.



## Q: How should insect repellents be used on children to prevent mosquito
bites and the viruses that some mosquitoes can spread?

A: When using insect repellent on your child always follow label instructions.
Do not use products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE) or para-menthane-
diol (PMD) on children under 3 years old. Do not apply insect repellent to a
child's hands, eyes, mouth, cuts, or irritated skin. Adults should spray
insect repellent onto their hands and then apply to a child's face.



## Q: Is it safe for infants or children to travel to an area with risk of
Zika?

A: CDC's travel guidance for areas with risk of Zika applies to infants and
children, as well as adults. CDC recommends that those who travel to areas
with risk of Zika protect themselves from mosquito bites during travel and for
3 weeks after returning from travel. For safe and effective ways to protect
your child from mosquito bites, please visit CDC's Zika prevention page. Most
children infected with Zika virus have no symptoms or have a mild illness,
similar to adults with Zika virus infection.



## Q: What should I do if I am sick, or a family member is sick, with Zika?

A: Many people infected with Zika virus won't have symptoms or will only have
mild symptoms lasting several days to a week. If you have symptoms of Zika
(fever, rash, headache, joint pain, red eyes, or muscle pain) and you live in
or recently traveled to an area with risk of Zika, you should see your doctor
or healthcare provider and tell him or her about your symptoms and recent
travel. There is no specific medicine for Zika, but you can treat the
symptoms. If you are diagnosed with Zika, protect those around you by taking
steps to prevent mosquito bites and to prevent sexual transmission of Zika.
Because Zika can generally be found in blood during approximately the first
week of infection and can be passed to another person through mosquito bites,
help prevent others from getting sick by strictly following steps to prevent
mosquito bites during the first week of illness.



## Q: Should we be concerned about Zika in the United States?

A: Local mosquito-borne spread of Zika has been previously reported in the
continental United States. In 2018 and 2019, no local mosquito-borne Zika
virus transmission has been reported in the continental United States.



## Q: What is CDC doing about Zika?

A: CDC is working around the clock to respond to the Zika virus outbreak.
CDC's work includes developing laboratory tests to diagnose Zika, conducting
studies to learn more about Zika, publishing reports about Zika, monitoring
and reporting cases of Zika, providing guidance to travelers and Americans
living in areas with outbreaks, providing on-the-ground support in countries
and US territories with current Zika outbreaks, and more. You can find more
information here.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: October 7, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Vector-
Borne Diseases (DVBD)

home Zika Virus Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Zikaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What You Need to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions About Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention & Transmissionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protect Yourself & Othersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Build a Zika Prevention Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Mosquito Bitesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Controlling Mosquitoes at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sexual Transmission & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Plan for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika & Blood Transfusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika & Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Men & Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms, Testing, & Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing for Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood & Tissue Collection Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics & Mapsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015 Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mosquito Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Integrated Mosquito Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika Vector Control in the Continental US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Potential Range in US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * For Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance & Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Information on Aerial Spraying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insecticide Resistanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing in Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mosquitoes & Hurricanes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Effects & Risksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microcephaly & Other Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood & Tissue Collection Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * For Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Evaluation & Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sexual Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing for Zikaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnostic Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Test Specimens â At Time of Birth 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare Exposure to Zika & Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Interim Guidance for Managing Occupational Exposures to Zika Virus for Healthcare Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * For Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lab Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Testing for Zika Virus Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Test Specimens â Body Fluids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Test Specimens â Tissues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources & Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiologic Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika Communication Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Video Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika Widgets

![Zika and Pregnancy button.  ](/zika/images/pregnancy-button.jpg)

![CDC MMWR Zika button](/zika/images/Zika_MMWR_button.jpg)

![Zika microsite button](/zika/images/highlights-zikamicrosite-purple.jpg)

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

