Link: https://medlineplus.gov/autonomicnervoussystemdisorders.html    
                                Description: Dysautonomia is a disorder of the autonomic nervous system, which controls functions such as breathing and heartbeat. Read more about these disorders.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Autonomic Nervous System Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/autonomicnervoussystemdisorders.html

#  Autonomic Nervous System Disorders

Also called: Dysautonomia

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your autonomic nervous system is the part of your nervous system that controls
involuntary actions, such as the beating of your heart and the widening or
narrowing of your blood vessels. When something goes wrong in this system, it
can cause serious problems, including

    * Blood pressure problems
    * Heart problems
    * Trouble with breathing and swallowing
    * Erectile dysfunction in men

Autonomic nervous system disorders can occur alone or as the result of another
disease, such as Parkinson's disease, alcoholism and diabetes. Problems can
affect either part of the system, as in complex regional pain syndromes, or
all of the system. Some types are temporary, but many worsen over time. When
they affect your breathing or heart function, these disorders can be life-
threatening.

Some autonomic nervous system disorders get better when an underlying disease
is treated. Often, however, there is no cure. In that case, the goal of
treatment is to improve symptoms.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Autonomic Neuropathy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Dysautonomia (Autonomic Dysfunction) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Overview of the Autonomic Nervous System (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Autoimmune Autonomic Ganglionopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)
    * Baroreflex Failure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)
    * Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center) Also in Spanish
    * Holmes-Adie Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Horner Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Multiple System Atrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary Also in Spanish
    * Multiple System Atrophy Fact Sheet ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Orthostatic Hypotension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Postural Tachycardia Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Pure Autonomic Failure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: autosomal dominant leukodystrophy with autonomic disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: cold-induced sweating syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: congenital central hypoventilation syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: dopamine beta-hydroxylase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: familial dysautonomia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Horner syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: multiple system atrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: orthostatic hypotension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: StÃ¼ve-Wiedemann syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: transthyretin amyloidosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: triple A syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Autonomic Nervous System Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Horner Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypotension, Orthostatic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Multiple System Atrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: What is the optimal duration of the TILT after administration of...
    * Article: Baroreflex Dysfunction.
    * Article: Diabetes-associated cardiac autonomic neuropathy.
    * Autonomic Nervous System Disorders -- see more articles
    * Familial dysautonomia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Anisocoria and Horner's Syndrome (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)

## Patient Handouts

    * Autonomic neuropathy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Multiple system atrophy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Autonomic Nervous System
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutonomicNervousSystemDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Autonomic hyperreflexia
    * Autonomic neuropathy
    * Horner syndrome
    * Multiple system atrophy
    * Riley-Day syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Fainting
    * Low Blood Pressure
    * Neurologic Diseases
    * Peripheral Nerve Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Autonomic Nervous System
Disorders is the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 February 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

