Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000250.htm    
                                Description: Ulcerative colitis is a condition in which the lining of the large intestine (colon) and rectum become inflamed. It is a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Crohn disease is a related condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ulcerative colitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000250.htm

# Ulcerative colitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ulcerative colitis is a condition in which the lining of the large intestine
(colon) and rectum become inflamed. It is a form of inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD). Crohn disease is a related condition.

## Causes

The cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. People with this condition have
problems with the immune system. However, it is not clear if immune problems
cause this illness. Stress and certain foods can trigger symptoms, but they do
not cause ulcerative colitis.

Ulcerative colitis may affect any age group. There are peaks at ages 15 to 30
and then again at ages 50 to 70.

The disease begins in the rectal area. It may stay in the rectum or spread to
higher areas of the large intestine. However, the disease does not skip areas.
It may involve the entire large intestine over time.

Risk factors include a family history of ulcerative colitis or other
autoimmune diseases, or Jewish ancestry.

## Symptoms

The symptoms can be more or less severe. They may start slowly or suddenly.
Half of people only have mild symptoms. Others have more severe attacks that
occur more often. Many factors can lead to attacks.

Symptoms may include:

    * Pain in the abdomen (belly area) and cramping.
    * A gurgling or splashing sound heard over the intestine.
    * Blood and possibly pus in the stools.
    * Diarrhea, from only a few episodes to very often.
    * Fever.
    * Feeling that you need to pass stools, even though your bowels are already empty. It may involve straining, pain, and cramping (tenesmus).
    * Weight loss.

Children's growth may slow.

Other symptoms that may occur with ulcerative colitis include the following:

    * Joint pain and swelling
    * Mouth sores (ulcers)
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Skin lumps or ulcers 

## Exams and Tests

Colonoscopy with biopsy is most often used to diagnose ulcerative colitis.
Colonoscopy is also used to screen people with ulcerative colitis for colon
cancer.

![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1083.jpg)

Other tests that may be done to help diagnose this condition include:

    * Barium enema
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * C-reactive protein (CRP)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Stool calprotectin or lactoferrin
    * Antibody tests by blood 

Sometimes, tests of the small intestine are needed to differentiate between
ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease, including:

    * CT scan
    * MRI
    * Upper endoscopy or capsule study 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

    * Control the acute attacks
    * Prevent repeated attacks
    * Help the colon heal 

During a severe episode, you may need to be treated in the hospital for severe
attacks. Your doctor may prescribe corticosteroids. You may be given nutrients
through a vein (IV line).

DIET AND NUTRITION

Certain types of foods may worsen diarrhea and gas symptoms. This problem may
be more severe during times of active disease. Diet suggestions include:

    * Eat small amounts of food throughout the day.
    * Drink plenty of water (drink small amounts throughout the day).
    * Avoid high-fiber foods (bran, beans, nuts, seeds, and popcorn).
    * Avoid fatty, greasy or fried foods and sauces (butter, margarine, and heavy cream).
    * Limit milk products if you are lactose intolerant. Dairy products are a good source of protein and calcium. 

STRESS

You may feel worried, embarrassed, or even sad or depressed about having a
bowel accident. Other stressful events in your life, such as moving, or losing
a job or a loved one can cause worsening of digestive problems.

Ask your health care provider for tips about how to manage your stress.

MEDICINES

Medicines that may be used to decrease the number of attacks include:

    * 5-aminosalicylates such as mesalamine or sulfasalazine, which can help control moderate symptoms. Some forms of the drug are taken by mouth. Others must be inserted into the rectum.
    * Medicines to quiet the immune system.
    * Corticosteroids such as prednisone. They may be taken by mouth during a flare-up or inserted into the rectum.
    * Immunomodulators, medicines taken by mouth that affect the immune system, such as azathioprine and 6-MP.
    * Biologic therapy, if you do not respond to other drugs.
    * Acetaminophen (Tylenol) may help relieve mild pain. Avoid drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn). These can make your symptoms worse. 

SURGERY

Surgery to remove the colon will cure ulcerative colitis and removes the
threat of colon cancer. You may need surgery if you have:

    * Colitis that does not respond to complete medical therapy
    * Changes in the lining of the colon that can lead to cancer
    * Severe problems, such as rupture of the colon, severe bleeding, or toxic megacolon 

Most of the time, the entire colon, including the rectum, is removed. After
surgery, you may have:

    * An opening in your belly called the stoma (ileostomy). Stool will drain out through this opening.
    * A procedure that connects the small intestine to the anus to gain more normal bowel function. 

## Support Groups

Social support can often help with the stress of dealing with illness, and
support group members may also have useful tips for finding the best treatment
and coping with the condition.

The Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA) has information and links
to support groups.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms are mild in about one half of people with ulcerative colitis. More
severe symptoms are less likely to respond well to medicines.

Cure is only possible through complete removal of the large intestine.

The risk for colon cancer increases in each decade after ulcerative colitis is
diagnosed.

## Possible Complications

You have a higher risk for small bowel and colon cancer if you have ulcerative
colitis. At some point, your provider will recommend tests to screen for colon
cancer.

More severe episodes that recur may cause the walls of the intestines to
become thickened, leading to:

    * Colon narrowing or blockage
    * Episodes of severe bleeding
    * Severe infections
    * Sudden widening (dilation) of the large intestine within one to a few days
    * Tears or holes (perforation) in the colon
    * Anemia, low blood count

Problems absorbing nutrients may lead to:

    * Thinning of the bones (osteoporosis)
    * Problems maintaining a healthy weight
    * Slow growth and development in children
    * Anemia or low blood count

Less common problems that may occur include:

    * Type of arthritis that affects the bones and joints at the base of the spine, where it connects with the pelvis (ankylosing spondylitis)
    * Liver disease
    * Tender, red bumps (nodules) under the skin, which may turn into skin ulcers
    * Sores or swelling in the eye 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop ongoing abdominal pain, new or increased bleeding, fever that does not go away, or other symptoms of ulcerative colitis
    * You have ulcerative colitis and your symptoms worsen or do not improve with treatment
    * You develop new symptoms 

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for this condition.

## Alternative Names

Inflammatory bowel disease - ulcerative colitis; IBD - ulcerative colitis;
Colitis; Proctitis; Ulcerative proctitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Changing your ostomy pouch
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Ulcerative colitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19308t.jpg)Ulcerative colitis

## References

Bressler B, Marshall JK, Bernstein CN, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for
the medical management of nonhospitalized ulcerative colitis: the Toronto
consensus. _Gastroenterology_. 2015;148(5):1035-1058. PMID: 25747596
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25747596.

Kornbluth A, Sachar DB; Practice Parameters Committee of the American College
of Gastroenterology. Ulcerative colitis practice guidelines in adults:
American College of Gastroenterology, Practice Parameters Committee. _Am J
Gastroenterol_. 2010;105(3):501-523. PMID: 20068560
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20068560.

Mowat C, Cole A, Windsor A, et al. Guidelines for the management of
inflammatory bowel disease in adults. _Gut_. 2011;60(5):571-607. PMID:
21464096 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21464096.

Osterman MT, Lichtenstein GR. Ulcerative colitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

Ross H, Steele SR, Varma M, et al. Practice parameters for the surgical
treatment of ulcerative colitis. _Dis Colon Rectum_. 2014;57(1):5-22. PMID:
24316941 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24316941.

Ungaro R, Mehandru S, Allen PB, Peyrin-Biroulet L, Colombel JF. Ulcerative
colitis. _Lancet._ 2017;389(10080):1756-1770. PMID: 27914657
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27914657.

## Review Date 2/23/2018

Updated by: Jenifer K. Lehrer, MD, Department of Gastroenterology, Aria-
Jefferson Health Torresdale, Jefferson Digestive Diseases Network,
Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal
review and update on 01/17/2020 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ulcerative
Colitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UlcerativeColitis_thumb.jpg)Ulcerative
Colitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

