Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007632.htm    
                                Description: Endometrial ablation is a surgery or procedure done to damage the lining of the uterus in order to minimize heavy or prolonged menstrual flow. This lining is called the endometrium. The surgery may be    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endometrial ablation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007632.htm

# Endometrial ablation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endometrial ablation is a surgery or procedure done to damage the lining of
the uterus in order to minimize heavy or prolonged menstrual flow. This lining
is called the endometrium. The surgery may be done in a hospital, outpatient
surgery center, or the provider's office.

## Description

Endometrial ablation is a procedure used to treat abnormal bleeding by
destroying tissue in the uterine lining. The tissue can be removed using:

    * High frequency radio waves
    * Laser energy
    * Heated fluids
    * Balloon therapy
    * Freezing
    * Electrical current

Some types of procedures are done using a thin, lighted tube called a
hysteroscope that sends images of the inside of the womb to a video monitor.
Most of the time general anesthesia is used so you will be asleep and pain
free.

However, newer techniques can be done without using a hysteroscope. For these,
a shot of numbing medicine is injected into the nerves around the cervix to
block pain.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure can treat heavy or irregular periods. Your health care provider
will likely have tried other treatments first, such as hormone medicines or an
IUD.

Endometrial ablation will not be used if you may want to become pregnant in
the future. Though this procedure does not prevent you from getting pregnant,
it may reduce your chances of getting pregnant. Reliable contraception is
important in all women who get the procedure.

If a woman gets pregnant after an ablation procedure, the pregnancy will often
miscarry or be extremely high risk because of the scar tissue in the uterus.

## Risks

Risks of hysteroscopy include:

    * Hole (perforation) in the wall of the womb
    * Scarring of the lining of the womb
    * Infection of the uterus
    * Damage to the cervix
    * Need for surgery to repair damage
    * Severe bleeding
    * Damage to the bowels 

Risks of ablation procedures vary depending on the method used. Risks may
include:

    * Absorption of excess fluid
    * Allergic reaction
    * Pain or cramping following the procedure
    * Burns or tissue damage from procedures using heat 

Risks of any pelvic surgery include:

    * Damage to nearby organs or tissues
    * Blood clots, which could travel to the lungs and be deadly (rare) 

Risks of anesthesia include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Dizziness
    * Headache
    * Breathing problems
    * Lung infection 

Risks of any surgery include:

    * Infection
    * Bleeding 

## Before the Procedure

A biopsy of the endometrium or lining of the uterus will be performed in the
weeks prior to the procedure. Younger women may be treated with a hormone that
blocks estrogen from being made by the body for 1 to 3 months before the
procedure.

Your provider may prescribe medicine to open your cervix. This makes it easier
to insert the scope. You need to take this medicine about 8 to 12 hours before
your procedure.

Before any surgery:

    * Always tell your provider about all the medicines you take. This includes vitamins, herbs, and supplements.
    * Tell your provider if you have diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, or other health problems.

In the 2 weeks before your procedure:

    * You may need to stop taking drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), clopidogrel (Plavix), and warfarin (Coumadin). Your provider will tell you what you should or should not take.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you can take on the day of your procedure.
    * Tell your provider if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes outbreak, or other sickness.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. Ask if you need to arrange for someone to drive you home.

On the day of the procedure:

    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything 6 to 12 hours before your procedure.
    * Take any approved drugs with a small sip of water.

## After the Procedure

You may go home the same day. Rarely, you may need to stay overnight.

    * You may have menstrual-like cramps and light vaginal bleeding for 1 to 2 days. Ask your provider if you can take over-the-counter pain medicine for the cramping.
    * You may have a watery discharge for up to several weeks.
    * You can return to normal daily activities within 1 to 2 days. DO NOT have sex until your provider says it is OK.
    * Any biopsy results are usually available with 1 to 2 weeks.

Your provider will tell you the results of your procedure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The lining of your uterus heals by scarring. Women will most often have less
menstrual bleeding after this procedure. Up to 30% to 50% of women will
completely stop having periods. This result is more likely in older women.

## Alternative Names

Hysteroscopy - endometrial ablation; Laser thermal ablation; Endometrial
ablation - radiofrequency; Endometrial ablation - thermal balloon ablation;
Rollerball ablation; Hydrothermal ablation; Novasure ablation

## References

Baggish MS. Minimally invasive nonhysteroscopic endometrial ablation. In:
Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds. _Atlas of pelvic anatomy and gynecologic surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 110.

Carlson SM, Goldberg J, Lentz GM. Endoscopy, hysteroscopy and laparoscopy:
indications, contraindications, and complications. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM,
Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Menstruation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menstruation_thumb.jpg)Menstruation
_Read more_

![Uterine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

