Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007636.htm    
                                Description: Endometrium is the lining of the inside of the womb (uterus). Overgrowth of this lining can create polyps. Polyps are fingerlike growths that attach to the wall of the uterus. They can be as small as a    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endometrial polyps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007636.htm

# Endometrial polyps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endometrium is the lining of the inside of the womb (uterus). Overgrowth of
this lining can create polyps. Polyps are fingerlike growths that attach to
the wall of the uterus. They can be as small as a sesame seed or larger than a
golf ball. There may be just one or many polyps.

## Causes

The exact cause of endometrial polyps in women is not known. They tend to grow
when there is more of the hormone estrogen in the body.

Most endometrial polyps are not cancerous. Very few can be cancerous or
precancerous. The chance of cancer is higher if you are postmenopausal, on
Tamoxifen, or have heavy or irregular periods.

Other factors that may increase the risk for endometrial polyps are:

    * Obesity
    * Tamoxifen, a treatment for breast cancer
    * Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy
    * Family history of Lynch syndrome or Cowden syndrome (genetic conditions that run in families)

Endometrial polyps are common in women between 20 to 40 years of age.

## Symptoms

You may not have any symptoms of endometrial polyps. If you do have symptoms,
they may include:

    * Menstrual bleeding that is not regular or predictable
    * Long or heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Bleeding between periods
    * Bleeding from the vagina after menopause
    * Trouble getting or staying pregnant (infertility)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may perform these tests to find out if you have
endometrial polyps:

    * Transvaginal ultrasound
    * Hysteroscopy
    * Endometrial biopsy
    * Hysterosonogram: a specialized type of ultrasound in which fluid is put into the uterine cavity while an ultrasound is performed
    * Three-dimensional ultrasound

## Treatment

Many polyps should be removed because of the small risk for cancer.

Endometrial polyps are most often removed by a procedure called hysteroscopy.
Sometimes, a D and C (Dilation and Curettage) can be done to biopsy the
endometrium and remove the polyp. This is less commonly used.

Postmenopausal women who have polyps that are not causing symptoms may also
consider watchful waiting. However, the polyp should be removed if it is
causing vaginal bleeding.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In rare cases, polyps can return after treatment.

## Possible Complications

Endometrial polyps may make it hard to get or stay pregnant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Menstrual bleeding that is not regular or predictable
    * Long or heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Bleeding between periods
    * Bleeding from the vagina after menopause

## Prevention

You cannot prevent endometrial polyps.

## Alternative Names

Uterine polyps; Uterine bleeding - polyps; Vaginal bleeding - polyps

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Gilks B. Uterus: corpus. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney JK, Myers JL,
eds. _Rosai and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 33.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

