Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001483.htm    
                                Description: Asherman syndrome is the formation of scar tissue in the uterine cavity. The problem most often develops after uterine surgery.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asherman syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001483.htm

# Asherman syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asherman syndrome is the formation of scar tissue in the uterine cavity. The
problem most often develops after uterine surgery.

## Causes

Asherman syndrome is a rare condition. In most cases, it occurs in women who
have had several dilatation and curettage (D&C) procedures.

A severe pelvic infection unrelated to surgery may also lead to Asherman
syndrome.

Adhesions in the uterine cavity can also form after infection with
tuberculosis or schistosomiasis. These infections are rare in the United
States. Uterine complications related to these infections are even less
common.

## Symptoms

The adhesions may cause:

    * Amenorrhea (lack of menstrual periods)
    * Repeated miscarriages
    * Infertility

However, such symptoms could be related to several conditions. They are more
likely to indicate Asherman syndrome if they occur suddenly after a D&C or
other uterine surgery.

## Exams and Tests

A pelvic exam does not reveal problems in most cases.

Tests may include:

    * Hysterosalpingography
    * Hysterosonogram
    * Transvaginal ultrasound examination
    * Blood tests to detect tuberculosis or schistosomiasis

## Treatment

Treatment involves surgery to cut and remove the adhesions or scar tissue.
This can most often be done with hysteroscopy. This uses small instruments and
a camera placed into the uterus through the cervix.

After scar tissue is removed, the uterine cavity must be kept open while it
heals to prevent adhesions from returning. Your health care provider may place
a small balloon inside the uterus for several days. You may also need to take
estrogen while the uterine lining heals.

You may need to take antibiotics if there is an infection.

## Support Groups

The stress of illness can often be helped by joining a support group. In such
groups, members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Asherman syndrome can often be cured with surgery. Sometimes more than one
procedure will be necessary.

Women who are infertile because of Asherman syndrome may be able to have a
baby after treatment. Successful pregnancy depends on the severity of Asherman
syndrome and the difficulty of the treatment. Other factors that affect
fertility and pregnancy may also be involved.

## Possible Complications

Complications of hysteroscopic surgery are uncommon. When they occur, they may
include bleeding, perforation of the uterus, and pelvic infection.

In some cases, treatment of Asherman syndrome will not cure infertility.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your menstrual periods do not return after a gynecologic or obstetrical surgery.
    * You cannot get pregnant after 6 to 12 months of trying (See a specialist for an infertility evaluation). 

## Prevention

Most cases of Asherman syndrome cannot be predicted or prevented.

## Alternative Names

Uterine synechiae; Intrauterine adhesions; Infertility - Asherman

## Images

    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Benacerraf BR, Goldstein SR, Groszmann YS. Scarred uterus and Asherman's
syndrome. In: Benacerraf BR, Goldstein SR, Groszmann YS, eds. _Gynecologic
Ultrasound: A Problem-Based Approach_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:177-181.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Keyhan S, Muasher L, Muasher SJ. Spontaneous abortion and recurrent pregnancy
loss: etiology, diagnosis, treatment. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 16.

Simpson JL, Jauniaux ERM. Early pregnancy loss and stillbirth. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 27.

Smith RP. Asherman syndrome (uterine synechia). In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's
Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 124.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

