Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001506.htm    
                                Description: Retroversion of the uterus occurs when a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retroversion of the uterus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001506.htm

# Retroversion of the uterus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retroversion of the uterus occurs when a woman's uterus (womb) tilts backward
rather than forward. It is commonly called a "tipped uterus."

## Causes

Retroversion of the uterus is common. Approximately 1 in 5 women has this
condition.The problem may also occur due to weakening of the pelvic ligaments
at the time of menopause.

Scar tissue or adhesions in the pelvis can also hold the uterus in a
retroverted position. Scarring may come from:

    * Endometriosis
    * Infection in uterus or tubes
    * Pelvic surgery 

## Symptoms

Retroversion of the uterus almost never causes any symptoms.

Rarely, it may cause pain or discomfort.

## Exams and Tests

A pelvic exam will show the position of the uterus. However, a tipped uterus
can sometimes be mistaken for a pelvic mass or a growing fibroid. A
rectovaginal exam may be used to distinguish between a mass and a retroverted
uterus.

An ultrasound test can be used to see the exact position of the uterus.

## Treatment

Treatment is not needed most of the time. Underlying disorders, such as
endometriosis or adhesions, should be treated as needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the condition does not cause problems.

## Possible Complications

In most cases, a retroverted uterus is a normal finding.. However, in some
cases it may be caused by endometriosis, salpingitis, or pressure from a
growing tumor.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have ongoing pelvic pain or discomfort.

## Prevention

There is no way to prevent the problem. Early treatment ofÂ uterine
infectionsÂ or endometriosis may reduce the chances of a change in the
position of the uterus.

## Alternative Names

Uterus retroversion; Malposition of the uterus; Tipped uterus; Tilted uterus

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Advincula A, Truong M, Lobo RA. Endometriosis: etiology, pathology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Female genitalia. In:
Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Hertzberg BS, Middleton WD. Pelvis and uterus. In: Hertzberg BS, Middleton WD,
eds. _Ultrasound: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

