Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001484.htm    
                                Description: Endometritis is an inflammation or irritation of the lining of the uterus (the endometrium). It is not the same as endometriosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endometritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001484.htm

# Endometritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endometritis is an inflammation or irritation of the lining of the uterus (the
endometrium). It is not the same as endometriosis.

## Causes

Endometritis is caused by an infection in the uterus. It can be due to
chlamydia, gonorrhea, tuberculosis, or a mix of normal vaginal bacteria. It is
more likely to occur after miscarriage or childbirth. It is also more common
after a long labor or C-section.

The risk for endometritis is higher after having a pelvic procedure that is
done through the cervix. Such procedures include:

    * D and C (dilation and curettage)
    * Endometrial biopsy
    * Hysteroscopy
    * Placement of an intrauterine device (IUD) 
    * Childbirth (more common after C-section than vaginal birth)

Endometritis can occur at the same time as other pelvic infections.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Swelling of the abdomen
    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge
    * Discomfort with bowel movement (including constipation)
    * Fever
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling
    * Pain in lower abdomen or pelvic region (uterine pain) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam with a pelvic exam. Your
uterus and cervix may be tender and the provider may not hear bowel sounds.
You may have cervical discharge.

The following tests may be performed:

    * Cultures from the cervix for chlamydia, gonorrhea, and other organisms
    * Endometrial biopsy
    * ESR (erythrocyte sedimentation rate)
    * Laparoscopy
    * WBC (white blood count)
    * Wet prep (microscopic exam of any discharge) 

## Treatment

You will need to take antibiotics to treat the infection and prevent
complications. Finish all your medicine if you have been given antibiotics
after a pelvic procedure. Also, go to all follow-up visits with your provider.

You may need to be treated in the hospital if your symptoms are severe or
occur after childbirth.

Other treatments may involve:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Rest 

Sexual partners may need to be treated if the condition is caused by a
sexually transmitted infection (STI).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the condition goes away with antibiotics. Untreated
endometritis can lead to more serious infections and complications. Rarely, it
may be associated with a diagnosis of endometrial cancer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Infertility
    * Pelvic peritonitis (generalized pelvic infection)
    * Pelvic or uterine abscess formation
    * Septicemia
    * Septic shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of endometritis.

Call right away if symptoms occur after:

    * Childbirth
    * Miscarriage
    * Abortion
    * IUD placement
    * Surgery involving the uterus

## Prevention

Endometritis may be caused by STIs. To help prevent endometritis from STIs:

    * Treat STIs early.
    * Make sure sexual partners are treated in the case of a STI.
    * Follow safer sex practices, such as using condoms. 

Women having a C-section may have antibiotics before the procedure to prevent
infections.

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Endometritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17062t.jpg)Endometritis

## References

Duff P, Birsner M. Maternal and perinatal infection in pregnancy: bacterial.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Smaill FM, Grivell RM. Antibiotic prophylaxis versus no prophylaxis for
preventing infection after cesarean section. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_.
2014;(10):CD007482. PMID: 25350672 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25350672.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pelvic Inflammatory
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicInflammatoryDisease_thumb.jpg)Pelvic
Inflammatory Disease _Read more_

![Uterine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

