Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001513.htm    
                                Description: Adenomyosis is a thickening of the walls of the uterus. It occurs when endometrial tissue grows into the outer muscular walls of the uterus. This tissue forms the lining of the uterus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adenomyosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001513.htm

# Adenomyosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adenomyosis is a thickening of the walls of the uterus. It occurs when
endometrial tissue grows into the outer muscular walls of the uterus. This
tissue forms the lining of the uterus.

## Causes

The cause is not known. Sometimes, adenomyosis may cause the uterus to grow in
size.

The disease most often occurs in women ages 35 to 50 who have had at least one
pregnancy.

## Symptoms

In many cases, there are no symptoms. When symptoms occur, they can include:

    * Long-term or heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Painful menstrual periods, which gets worse
    * Pelvic pain during intercourse 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will make the diagnosis if a woman has symptoms of
adenomyosis that are not caused by other problems. The only way to confirm the
diagnosis is by examining the tissue of the uterus after a surgery to remove
it.

During a pelvic exam, the provider may find a soft and slightly enlarged
uterus. The exam may also reveal a uterine mass or uterine tenderness.

An ultrasound of the uterus may be done. However, it may not give a clear
diagnosis of adenomyosis. MRI can help distinguish this condition from other
uterine tumors.

## Treatment

Most women have some adenomyosis as they get close to menopause. However, only
a few will have symptoms. Most women do not need treatment.

Birth control pills and an IUD that has progesterone can help decrease heavy
bleeding. Medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen can also help manage
symptoms.

Surgery to remove the uterus (hysterectomy) may be done in women with severe
symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms most often go away after menopause. Surgery to remove the uterus gets
you rid of symptoms completely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of adenomyosis.

## Alternative Names

Endometriosis interna; Adenomyoma; Pelvic pain - adenomyosis

## References

Brown D, Levine D. The uterus. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic
ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 15.

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Gambone JC. Endometriosis and adenomyosis. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel
CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Uterine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Uterine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

