Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000528.htm    
                                Description: Alcohol use is not only an adult problem. Most American high school seniors have had an alcoholic drink within the past month. Drinking can lead to risky and dangerous behaviors.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Risks of underage drinking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000528.htm

# Risks of underage drinking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcohol use is not only an adult problem. Most American high school seniors
have had an alcoholic drink within the past month. Drinking can lead to risky
and dangerous behaviors.

## Alcohol Use and Teenagers

Puberty and the teenage years are a time of change. Your child may have just
started high school or just gotten a driver's license. They may have a sense
of freedom they never had before.

Teenagers are curious. They want to explore and do things their own way. But
pressure to fit in might make it hard to resist alcohol if it seems like
everyone else is trying it.

## The Best Time to Begin Talking

When a child begins drinking before age 15, they are much more likely to
become a long-term drinker, or problem drinker. About 1 in 5 teens are
considered problem drinkers. This means they:

    * Get drunk
    * Have accidents related to drinking
    * Get into trouble with the law, their families, friends, schools, or the people they date 

The best time to begin talking with your teen about drugs and alcohol is now.
Children as young as 9 years old may become curious about drinking and they
may even try alcohol.

## Alcohol can Cause Injury or Death

Drinking can lead to making decisions that cause harm. Alcohol use means any
of the following are more likely to occur:

    * Car crashes
    * Falls, drowning, and other accidents
    * Suicide
    * Violence and homicide
    * Being a victim of violent crime 

## Risky Sexual Behavior

Alcohol use can lead to risky sexual behavior. This increases the risk for:

    * Sexually transmitted infections
    * Unwanted pregnancy
    * Sexual assault or rape 

## Drinking and School

Over time, too much alcohol damages brain cells. This can lead to behavior
problems and lasting damage to memory, thinking, and judgment. Teens who drink
tend to do poorly in school and their behaviors may get them into trouble.

## Health Problems Related to Alcohol

The effects of long-term alcohol use on the brain may be lifelong. Drinking
also creates a higher risk for depression, anxiety, and low self-esteem.

Drinking during puberty can also change hormones in the body. This can disrupt
growth and puberty.

Too much alcohol at one time can cause serious injury or death from alcohol
poisoning. This can occur with having as few as 4 drinks within 2 hours.

## Get Help for Your Child

If you think your child is drinking but will not talk with you about it, get
help. Your child's health care provider may be a good place to start. Other
resources include:

    * Local hospitals
    * Public or private mental health agencies
    * Counselors at your child's school
    * Student health centers
    * Programs such as Alateen, part of the Al-Anon program -- al-anon.org/for-members/group-resources/alateen

## Alternative Names

Risky drinking - teen; Alcohol - underage drinking; Problem underage drinking;
Underage drinking - risks

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Substance-related and addictive disorders.
_Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington,
VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:481-590.

Kogan SM. The role of parents and families in preventing young adult alcohol
use. _J Adolesc Health_. 2017;61(2):127-128. PMID: 28734320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28734320.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol screening
and brief intervention for youth: a practitioner's guide.
pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/Practitioner/YouthGuide/YouthGuide.pdf.
Updated October 2015. Accessed May 15, 2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Underage Drinking

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

