Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007365.htm    
                                Description: Leg or foot amputation is the removal of a leg, foot or toes from the body. These body parts are called extremities. Amputations are done either by surgery or they occur by accident or trauma to the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leg or foot amputation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007365.htm

# Leg or foot amputation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leg or foot amputation is the removal of a leg, foot or toes from the body.
These body parts are called extremities. Amputations are done either by
surgery or they occur by accident or trauma to the body.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Reasons for having an amputation of a lower limb are:

    * Severe trauma to the limb caused by an accident
    * Poor blood flow to the limb
    * Infections that do not go away or become worse and cannot be controlled or healed
    * Tumors of the lower limb
    * Severe burns or severe frostbite
    * Wounds that do not heal
    * Loss of function to the limb
    * Loss of sensation to the limb making it vulnerable to injury

## Risks

Risks of any surgery are:

    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding 

Risks of this surgery are:

    * A feeling that the limb is still there. This is called phantom sensation. Sometimes, this feeling can be painful. This is called phantom pain.
    * The joint closest to the part that is amputated loses its range of motion, making it hard to move. This is called joint contracture.
    * Infection of the skin or bone.
    * The amputation wound does not heal properly. 

## Before the Procedure

When your amputation is planned, you will be asked to do certain things to
prepare for it. Tell your health care provider:

    * What medicines you are taking, even medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol 

During the days before your surgery, you may be asked to stop taking aspirin,
ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other
medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.

Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your
surgery. If you smoke, stop.

If you have diabetes, follow your diet and take your medicines as usual until
the day of surgery.

On the day of the surgery, you will likely be asked not to drink or eat
anything for 8 to 12 hours before your surgery.

Take any medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water. If
you have diabetes, follow the directions your provider gave you.

Prepare your home before surgery:

    * Plan for what help you will need when you come home from the hospital.
    * Arrange for a family member, friend, or neighbor to help you. Or, ask your provider for help planning for a home health aide to come into your home.
    * Ensure that your bathroom and the rest of your house are safe for you to move around in. For example, remove tripping hazards such as throw rugs.
    * Ensure that you will be able to get in and out of your home safely. 

## After the Procedure

The end of your leg (residual limb) will have a dressing and bandage that will
remain on for 3 or more days. You may have pain for the first few days. You
will be able to take pain medicine as you need them.

You may have a tube that drains fluid from the wound. This will be taken out
after a few days.

Before leaving the hospital, you will begin learning how to:

    * Use a wheelchair or a walker.
    * Stretch your muscles to make them stronger.
    * Strengthen your arms and legs.
    * Begin walking with a walking aid and parallel bars.
    * Start moving around the bed and into the chair in your hospital room.
    * Keep your joints mobile.
    * Sit or lie in different positions to keep your joints from becoming stiff.
    * Control swelling in the area around your amputation.
    * Properly put weight on your residual limb. You will be told how much weight to put on your residual limb. You may not be allowed to put weight on your residual limb until it is fully healed. 

Fitting for prosthesis, a manmade part to replace your limb, may occur when
your wound is mostly healed and the surrounding area is no longer tender to
the touch.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your recovery and ability to function after the amputation depend on many
things. Some of these are the reason for the amputation, whether you have
diabetes or poor blood flow, and your age. Most people can still be active
following amputation.

## Alternative Names

Amputation - foot; Amputation - leg; Trans-metatarsal amputation; Below knee
amputation; BK amputation; Above knee amputation; AK amputation; Trans-femoral
amputation; Trans-tibial amputation

## Patient Instructions

    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * How to read food labels
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Phantom limb pain
    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open

## References

Brodksy JW, Saltzman CL. Amputations of the foot and ankle. In: Coughlin MJ,
Saltzman CL, Anderson RB, eds. _Mann's Surgery of the Foot and Ankle_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 28.

Bastas G. Lower limb amputations. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD Jr,
eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 120.

Rios AL, Eidt JF. Lower extremity amputations: operative techniques and
results. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 112.

Toy PC. General principles of amputations. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST,
eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Limb Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LimbLoss_thumb.jpg)Limb Loss _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

