Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000791.htm    
                                Description: Common peroneal nerve dysfunction is due to damage to the peroneal nerve leading to loss of movement or sensation in the foot and leg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Common peroneal nerve dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000791.htm

# Common peroneal nerve dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Common peroneal nerve dysfunction is due to damage to the peroneal nerve
leading to loss of movement or sensation in the foot and leg.

## Causes

The peroneal nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve, which supplies movement
and sensation to the lower leg, foot and toes. Common peroneal nerve
dysfunction is a type of peripheral neuropathy (damage to nerves outside the
brain or spinal cord). This condition can affect people of any age.

Dysfunction of a single nerve, such as the common peroneal nerve, is called a
mononeuropathy. Mononeuropathy means the nerve damage occurred in one area.
Certain body-wide conditions can also cause single nerve injuries.

Damage to the nerve disrupts the myelin sheath that covers the axon (branch of
the nerve cell). The axon can also be injured, which causes more severe
symptoms.

Common causes of damage to the peroneal nerve include the following:

    * Trauma or injury to the knee
    * Fracture of the fibula (a bone of the lower leg)
    * Use of a tight plaster cast (or other long-term constriction) of the lower leg
    * Crossing the legs regularly
    * Regularly wearing high boots
    * Pressure to the knee from positions during deep sleep or coma
    * Injury during knee surgery or from being placed in an awkward position during anesthesia

Common peroneal nerve injury is often seen in people:

    * Who are very thin (for example, from anorexia nervosa)
    * Who have certain autoimmune conditions, such as polyarteritis nodosa
    * Who have nerve damage from other medical problems, such as diabetes or alcohol use
    * Who have Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, an inherited disorder that affects all of the nerves

## Symptoms

When the nerve is injured and results in dysfunction, symptoms may include:

    * Decreased sensation, numbness, or tingling in the top of the foot or the outer part of the upper or lower leg
    * Foot that drops (unable to hold the foot up)
    * "Slapping" gait (walking pattern in which each step makes a slapping noise)
    * Toes drag while walking
    * Walking problems
    * Weakness of the ankles or feet
    * Loss of muscle mass because the nerves aren't stimulating the muscles 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which may show:

    * Loss of muscle control in the lower legs and feet
    * Atrophy of the foot or foreleg muscles
    * Difficulty lifting up the foot and toes and making toe-out movements 

Tests of nerve activity include:

    * Electromyography (EMG, a test of electrical activity in muscles)
    * Nerve conduction tests (to see how fast electrical signals move through a nerve)
    * MRI
    * Nerve ultrasound 

Other tests may be done depending on the suspected cause of nerve dysfunction,
and the person's symptoms and how they develop. Tests may include blood tests,
x-rays and scans.

## Treatment

Treatment aims to improve mobility and independence. Any illness or other
cause of the neuropathy should be treated. Padding the knee may prevent
further injury by crossing the legs, while also servingÂ asÂ aÂ reminder to
not cross your legs.

In some cases, corticosteroids injected into the area may reduce swelling and
pressure on the nerve.

You may need surgery if:

    * The disorder does not go away
    * You have problems with movement
    * There is evidence that the nerve axon is damaged

Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve may reduce symptoms if the disorder
is caused by pressure on the nerve. Surgery to remove tumors on the nerve may
also help.

CONTROLLING SYMPTOMS

You may need over-the-counter or prescription pain relievers to control pain.
Other medicines that may be used to reduce pain include gabapentin,
carbamazepine, or tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline.

If your pain is severe, a pain specialist can help you explore all options for
pain relief.

Physical therapy exercises may help you maintain muscle strength.

Orthopedic devices may improve your ability to walk and prevent contractures.
These may include braces, splints, orthopedic shoes, or other equipment.

Vocational counseling, occupational therapy, or similar programs may help you
maximize your mobility and independence.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the cause of the problem. Successfully treating the cause
may relieve the dysfunction, although it may take several months for the nerve
to improve.

If nerve damage is severe, disability may be permanent. The nerve pain may be
very uncomfortable. This disorder does not usually shorten a person's expected
lifespan.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may develop with this condition include:

    * Decreased ability to walk
    * Permanent decrease in sensation in the legs or feet
    * Permanent weakness or paralysis in the legs or feet
    * Side effects of medicines

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of common peroneal nerve dysfunction.

## Prevention

Avoid crossing your legs or putting long-term pressure on the back or side of
the knee. Treat injuries to the leg or knee right away.

If a cast, splint, dressing, or other pressure on the lower leg causes a tight
feeling or numbness, call your provider.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - common peroneal nerve; Peroneal nerve injury; Peroneal nerve
palsy; Fibular neuropathy

## Images

    * ![Common peroneal nerve dysfunction](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9211t.jpg)Common peroneal nerve dysfunction

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Toro DRD, Seslija D, King JC. Fibular (peroneal) neuropathy. In: Frontera WR,
Silver JK, Rizzo TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

