Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001263.htm    
                                Description: Knock knees are condition in which the knees touch, but the ankles do not touch. The legs turn inward.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knock knees

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001263.htm

# Knock knees

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Knock knees are condition in which the knees touch, but the ankles do not
touch. The legs turn inward.

## Causes

Infants start out with bowlegs because of their folded position while in their
mother's womb. The legs begin to straighten once the child starts to walk (at
about 12 to 18 months). By age 3, the child becomes knock-kneed. When the
child stands, the knees touch but the ankles are apart.

By puberty, the legs straighten out and most children can stand with the knees
and ankles touching (without forcing the position).

Knock knees can also develop as a result of a medical problem or disease, such
as:

    * Injury of the shinbone (only one leg will be knock-kneed)
    * Osteomyelitis (bone infection)
    * Overweight or obesity
    * Rickets (a disease caused by a lack of vitamin D) 

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider will examine your child. Tests will be done if there
are signs that knock knees are not a part of normal development.

## Treatment

Knock knees are not treated in most cases.

If the problem continues after age 7, the child may use a night brace. This
brace is attached to a shoe.

Surgery may be considered for knock knees that are severe and continue beyond
late childhood.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children normally outgrow knock knees without treatment, unless it is caused
by a disease.

If surgery is needed, the results are most often good.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Difficulty walking (very rare)
    * Self-esteem changes related to cosmetic appearance of knock knees
    * If left untreated, knock knees can lead to early arthritis of the knee 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think your child has knock knees.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for normal knock knees.

## Alternative Names

Genu valgum

## References

Demay MB, Krane SM. Disorders of mineralization. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 71.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Torsional and angular
deformities. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 675.

Pomeranz AJ, Sabnis S, Busey SL, Kliegman RM. Bowlegs and knock-knees. In:
Pomeranz AJ, Sabnis S, Busey SL, Kliegman RM, eds. _Pediatric Decision-Making
Strategies_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 49.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

