Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002965.htm    
                                Description: Leg lengthening and shortening are types of surgery to treat some people who have legs of unequal lengths.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leg lengthening and shortening

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002965.htm

# Leg lengthening and shortening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leg lengthening and shortening are types of surgery to treat some people who
have legs of unequal lengths.

These procedures may:

    * Lengthen an abnormally short leg
    * Shorten an abnormally long leg
    * Limit growth of a normal leg to allow a short leg to grow to a matching length

## Description

BONE LENGTHENING

Traditionally, this series of treatments involves several surgeries, a long
recovery period, and a number of risks. However, it can add up to 6 inches (15
centimeters) of length to a leg.

The surgery is done under general anesthesia. This means the person is asleep
and pain-free during surgery.

    * The bone to be lengthened is cut.
    * Metal pins or screws are placed through the skin and into the bone. Pins are placed above and below the cut in the bone. Stitches are used to close the wound.
    * A metal device is attached to the pins in the bone. It will be used later to very slowly (over months) pull the cut bone apart. This creates a space between the ends of the cut bone that will fill in with new bone. 

When the leg has reached the desired length and has healed, another surgery is
done to remove the pins.

In recent years, several newer techniques have been developed for this
procedure. These are based on the traditional leg lengthening surgery, but may
be more comfortable or convenient for some people. Ask your surgeon about the
different techniques that may be appropriate for you.

BONE RESECTION OR REMOVAL

This is a complex surgery that can produce a very accurate degree of change.

While under general anesthesia:

    * The bone to be shortened is cut. A section of bone is removed.
    * The ends of the cut bone will be joined. A metal plate with screws or a nail down the center of the bone is placed across the bone to hold it in place during healing. 

BONE GROWTH RESTRICTION

Bone growth takes place at the growth plates (physes) at each end of long
bones.

The surgeon makes a cut over the growth plate at the end of the bone in the
longer leg.

    * The growth plate may be destroyed by scraping or drilling it to stop further growth at that growth plate.
    * Another method is to insert staples on each side of the bony growth plate. These can be removed when both legs are close to the same length. 

REMOVAL OF IMPLANTED METAL DEVICES

Metal pins, screws, staples, or plates may be used to hold the bone in place
during healing. Most orthopedic surgeons will wait several months to a year
before removing any large metal implants. Another surgery is needed to remove
the implanted devices.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Leg lengthening is considered if a person has a large difference in leg length
(more than 5 cm or 2 inches). The procedure is more likely to be recommended:

    * For children whose bones are still growing
    * For people of short stature
    * For children that have abnormalities in their growth plate

Leg shortening or restricting is considered for smaller differences in leg
length (usually less than 5 cm or 2 inches). Shortening a longer leg may be
recommended for children whose bones are no longer growing.

Bone growth restriction is recommended for children whose bones are still
growing. It is used to restrict the growth of a longer bone, while the shorter
bone continues to grow to match its length. Proper timing of this treatment is
important for best results.

Certain health conditions can lead to very unequal leg lengths. They include:

    * Poliomyelitis
    * Cerebral palsy
    * Small, weak muscles or short, tight (spastic) muscles, which may cause problems and prevent normal leg growth
    * Hip diseases such as Legg-Perthes disease
    * Previous injuries or broken bones
    * Birth defects (congenital deformities) of bones, joints, muscles, tendons, or ligaments 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Allergic reaction to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clot, or infection

Risks of this surgery include:

    * Bone growth restriction (epiphysiodesis), which may cause short height
    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Injury to blood vessels
    * Poor bone healing
    * Nerve damage 

## After the Procedure

After bone growth restriction:

    * It is common to spend up to a week in the hospital. Sometimes, a cast is placed on the leg for 3 to 4 weeks.
    * Healing is complete in 8 to 12 weeks. The person can go back to regular activities at this time. 

After bone shortening:

    * It is common for children to spend 2 to 3 weeks in the hospital. Sometimes, a cast is placed on the leg for 3 to 4 weeks.
    * Muscle weakness is common, and muscle strengthening exercises are started soon after surgery.
    * Crutches are used for 6 to 8 weeks.
    * Some people take 6 to 12 weeks to regain normal knee control and function.
    * A metal rod placed inside the bone is removed after 1 year. 

After bone lengthening:

    * The person will spend a few days in the hospital.
    * Frequent visits to the health care provider are needed to adjust the lengthening device. The amount of time the lengthening device is used depends on the amount of lengthening needed. Physical therapy is needed to maintain normal range of motion.
    * Special care of the pins or screws holding the device is needed to prevent infection.
    * The amount of time it takes the bone to heal depends on the amount of lengthening. Each centimeter of lengthening takes 36 days of healing. 

Because the blood vessels, muscles, and skin are involved, it is important to
check the skin color, temperature, and sensation of the foot and toes
frequently. This will help find any damage to blood vessels, muscles, or
nerves as early as possible.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Bone growth restriction (epiphysiodesis) is most often successful when it is
done at the correct time in the growth period. However, it may cause short
stature.

Bone shortening may be more exact than bone restriction, but it requires a
much longer recovery period.

Bone lengthening is completely successful about 4 out of 10 times. It has a
much higher rate of complications and need for further surgeries. Joint
contractures may occur.

## Alternative Names

Epiphysiodesis; Epiphyseal arrest; Correction of unequal bone length; Bone
lengthening; Bone shortening; Femoral lengthening; Femoral shortening

## Images

    * ![Leg lengthening - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/13971t.jpg)Leg lengthening - series

## References

Davidson RS. Leg-length discrepancy. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 676.

Kelly DM. Congenital anomalies of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

