Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000166.htm    
                                Description: You had a fracture (break) in the femur in your leg. It is also called the thigh bone. You may have needed surgery to repair the bone. You may have had surgery called an open reduction internal fixation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Femur fracture repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000166.htm

# Femur fracture repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a fracture (break) in the femur in your leg. It is also called the
thigh bone. You may have needed surgery to repair the bone. You may have had
surgery called an open reduction internal fixation. In this surgery, your
surgeon will make a cut to the skin to align your broken bone.

Your surgeon will then use special metal devices to hold your bones in place
while they heal. These devices are called internal fixators. The complete name
of this surgery is open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF).

In the most common surgery to repair a femur fracture, the surgeon inserts a
rod or large nail into the center of the bone. This rod helps support the bone
until it heals. The surgeon may also put a plate next to your bone that is
attached by screws. Sometimes, fixation devices are attached to a frame
outside your leg.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovery most often takes 4 to 6 months. The length of your recovery will
depend on how severe your fracture is, whether you have skin wounds, and how
severe they are. Recovery also depends on whether your nerves and blood
vessels were injured, and what treatment you had.

Most of the time, the rods and plates used to help the bone heal will not need
to be removed in a later surgery.

## Wound Care

You may be able to start showering again about 5 to 7 days after your surgery.
Ask your health care provider when you can start.

Take special care when showering. Follow your provider's instructions closely.

    * If you are wearing a leg brace or immobilizer, cover it with plastic to keep it dry while you shower.
    * If you are not wearing a leg brace or immobilizer, carefully wash your incision with soap and water when your provider says this is OK. Gently pat it dry. DO NOT rub the incision or put creams or lotions on it.
    * Sit on a shower stool to avoid falling while showering. 

DO NOT soak in a bathtub, swimming pool, or hot tub until your provider says
it is OK.

Change your dressing (bandage) over your incision every day. Gently wash the
wound with soap and water and pat it dry.

Check your incision for any signs of infection at least once a day. These
signs include more redness, more drainage, or the wound is opening up.

Tell all of your providers, including your dentist, that you have a rod or pin
in your leg. You may need to take antibiotics before dental work and other
medical procedures to reduce your risk of getting an infection. This is more
often needed early after the surgery.

## Home Setup

Have a bed that is low enough so that your feet touch the floor when you sit
on the edge of the bed.

Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

    * Learn how to prevent falls. Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another. Remove loose throw rugs. DO NOT keep small pets in your home. Fix any uneven flooring in doorways. Have good lighting.
    * Make your bathroom safe. Put hand rails in the bathtub or shower and next to the toilet. Place a slip-proof mat in the bathtub or shower.
    * DO NOT carry anything when you are walking around. You may need your hands to help you balance.

Put things where they are easy to reach.

Set up your home so that you do not have to climb steps. Some tips are:

    * Set up a bed or use a bedroom on the first floor.
    * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you spend most of your day. 

If you do not have someone to help you at home for the first 1 to 2 weeks, ask
your provider about having a trained caregiver come to your home to help you.
This person can check the safety of your home and help you with your daily
activities.

Follow the instructions your provider or physical therapist gave you about
when you can start putting weight on your leg. You may not be able to put all,
some, or any weight on your leg for a while. Make sure you know the correct
way to use a cane, crutches, or walker.

Be sure to do the exercises you were taught to help build strength and
flexibility as you recover.

Be careful not to stay in same position for too long. Change your position at
least once an hour.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Shortness of breath or chest pain when you breathe
    * Frequent urination or burning when you urinate
    * Redness or increasing pain around your incision
    * Drainage from your incision
    * Swelling in one of your legs (it will be red and warmer than the other leg)
    * Pain in your calf
    * Fever higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Pain that is not controlled by your pain medicines
    * Nosebleeds or blood in your urine or stools, if you are taking blood thinners 

## Alternative Names

ORIF - femur - discharge; Open reduction internal fixation - femur - discharge

## References

McCormack RG, Lopez CA. Commonly encountered fractures in sports medicine. In:
Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 13.

Rudloff MI. Fractures of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Whittle AP. General principles of fracture treatment. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

## Read More

    * Broken bone
    * Leg MRI scan

## Patient Instructions

    * Osteomyelitis - discharge

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Leg Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

