Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007357.htm    
                                Description: A leg MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan of the leg uses strong magnets to create pictures of the leg. This may include the ankle, foot, and surrounding tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leg MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007357.htm

# Leg MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A leg MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan of the leg uses strong magnets to
create pictures of the leg. This may include the ankle, foot, and surrounding
tissues.

A leg MRI also creates pictures of the knee.

MRI does not use radiation (x-rays).

Single MRI images are called slices. The images can be stored on a computer or
printed on film. One exam produces many images.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothes without metal zippers or
snaps (such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Make sure you take off your watch,
jewelry and wallet. Some types of metal can cause blurry images.

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into a tunnel-like scanner.

Some exams use a special dye (contrast). Most of the time, you will get the
dye through a vein in your arm or hand before the test. Sometimes, the dye is
given into a joint. The dye helps the radiologist see certain areas more
clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of closed spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Your provider may suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is not
as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Certain types of artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Certain types of vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

    * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
    * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. You will need to lie still. Too much movement can
blur MRI images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine makes loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help block out the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones to help the time pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can return to your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test provides detailed pictures of parts of the leg that are hard to see
clearly on CT scans.

Your provider may order an MRI of the leg if you have:

    * A mass that can be felt on a physical exam
    * An abnormal finding on an x-ray or bone scan
    * Birth defects of the leg, ankle, or foot
    * Bone pain and fever
    * Broken bone
    * Decreased motion of the ankle joint
    * Pain, swelling, or redness in a leg
    * Redness or swelling of the ankle joint
    * Leg pain and a history of cancer
    * Leg, foot, or ankle pain that does not get better with treatment
    * Instability of your ankle and foot

## Normal Results

A normal result means your leg looks OK.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Degenerative changes due to age
    * Abscess
    * Achilles tendonitis
    * Arthritis
    * Broken bone or fracture
    * Infection in the bone
    * Ligament, tendon, or cartilage injury
    * Muscle damage
    * Osteonecrosis (avascular necrosis)
    * Plantar fascia rupture (See: Plantar fascitis)
    * Posterior tibial tendon dysfunction
    * Tear or rupture of the Achilles tendon in the ankle area
    * Tumor or cancer in the bone, muscle, or soft tissue 

Talk to your provider about your questions and concerns.

## Risks

MRI contains no radiation. There have been no reported side effects from the
magnetic fields and radio waves.

It is also safe to have MRI performed during pregnancy. No side effects or
complications have been proven.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions are rare. However, gadolinium can be harmful to people with
kidney problems that need dialysis. If you have kidney problems, please tell
your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants to not work as well. It can also cause a piece of metal
inside your body to move or shift. For safety reasons, please do not bring
anything that contains metal into the scanner room.

## Considerations

Tests that may be done instead of an MRI include:

    * Bone scan
    * CT scan of the leg
    * Positron emission tomography (PET) scan
    * X-ray of the leg

A CT scan may be preferred in an emergency. The test is faster than MRI and
often available in the emergency room.

## Alternative Names

MRI - lower extremity; Magnetic resonance imaging - leg; Magnetic resonance
imaging - lower extremity; MRI - ankle; Magnetic resonance imaging - ankle;
MRI - femur; MRI - leg

## Patient Instructions

    * Femur fracture repair - discharge
    * Hip fracture - discharge 

## References

Kosmas C, Schreibman KL, Robbin MR. Foot and ankle. In: Haaga JR, Boll DT,
eds. _CT and MRI of the Whole Body_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 64.

Kadakia AR. Imaging of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds.
_DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 111.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging: In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankle](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkleInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ankle
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

