Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000744.htm    
                                Description: Venous ulcers (open sores) can occur when the veins in your legs do not push blood back up to your heart as well as they should. Blood backs up in the veins, building up pressure. If not treated, increased    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Venous ulcers - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000744.htm

# Venous ulcers - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Venous ulcers (open sores) can occur when the veins in your legs do not push
blood back up to your heart as well as they should. Blood backs up in the
veins, building up pressure. If not treated, increased pressure and excess
fluid in the affected area can cause an open sore to form.

Most venous ulcers occur on the leg, above the ankle. This type of wound can
be slow to heal.

## Causes

The cause of venous ulcers is high pressure in the veins of the lower leg. The
veins have one-way valves that keep blood flowing up toward your heart. When
these valves become weak or the veins become scarred and blocked, blood can
flow backward and pool in your legs. This is called venous insufficiency. This
leads to the high pressure in the lower leg veins. The increase in pressure
and buildup of fluid prevents nutrients and oxygen from getting to tissues.
The lack of nutrients causes cells to die, damaging the tissue, and a wound
can form.

## Signs and Symptoms

When blood pools in the veins of the lower leg, fluid and blood cells leak out
into the skin and other tissues. This can cause itchy, thin skin and lead to
skin changes called stasis dermatitis. This is an early sign of venous
insufficiency.

Other early signs include:

    * Leg swelling, heaviness, and cramping
    * Dark red, purple, brown, hardened skin (this is a sign that blood is pooling)
    * Itching and tingling 

Signs and symptoms of venous ulcers include:

    * Shallow sore with a red base, sometimes covered by yellow tissue
    * Unevenly shaped borders
    * Surrounding skin may be shiny, tight, warm or hot, and discolored
    * Leg pain
    * If the sore becomes infected, it may have a bad odor and pus may drain from the wound 

## Who is At Risk?

Risk factors for venous ulcers include:

    * Varicose veins
    * History of blood clots in the legs (deep vein thrombosis)
    * Blockage of the lymph vessels, which causes fluid to build up in the legs
    * Older age, being female, or being tall
    * Family history of venous insufficiency
    * Obesity
    * Pregnancy
    * Smoking
    * Sitting or standing for a long periods (usually for work)
    * Fracture of a long bone in the leg or other serious injuries, such as burns or muscle damage 

## Wound Care

Your health care provider will show you how to care for your wound. The basic
instructions are:

    * Always keep the wound clean and bandaged to prevent infection.
    * Your provider will tell you how often you need to change the dressing.
    * Keep the dressing and the skin around it dry. Try not to get healthy tissue around the wound too wet. This can soften the health tissue, causing the wound to get bigger.
    * Before applying a dressing, cleanse the wound thoroughly according to your provider's instructions.
    * Protect the skin around the wound by keeping it clean and moisturized.
    * You will wear a compression stocking or bandages over the dressing. Your provider will show you how to apply the bandages. 

To help treat a venous ulcer, the high pressure in the leg veins needs to be
relieved.

    * Wear compression stockings or bandages every day as instructed. They help prevent blood from pooling, reduce swelling, help with healing, and reduce pain.
    * Put your feet above your heart as often as possible. For example, you can lie down with your feet propped up on pillows.
    * Take a walk or exercise every day. Being active helps improve blood flow.
    * Take medicines as directed to help with healing.

If ulcers DO NOT heal well, your provider may recommend certain procedures or
surgery to improve blood flow through your veins.

## Prevention

If you are at risk for venous ulcers, take the steps listed above under Wound
Care. Also, check your feet and legs every day: the tops and bottoms, ankles,
and heels. Look for cracks and changes in skin color.

Lifestyle changes can help prevent venous ulcers. The following measures may
help improve blood flow and aid healing.

    * Quit smoking. Smoking is bad for your blood vessels.
    * If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar level under control. This will help you heal faster.
    * Exercise as much as you can. Staying active helps with blood flow.
    * Eat healthy foods and get plenty of sleep at night.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Manage your blood pressure and cholesterol levels. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if there are any signs of infection, such as:

    * Redness, increased warmth, or swelling around the wound
    * More drainage than before or drainage that is yellowish or cloudy
    * Bleeding
    * Odor
    * Fever or chills
    * Increased pain

## Alternative Names

Venous leg ulcers - self-care; Venous insufficiency ulcers - self-care; Stasis
leg ulcers - self-care; Varicose veins - venous ulcers - self-care; Stasis
dermatitis - venous ulcer

## References

Hafner A, Sprecher E. Ulcers. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 105.

Leong M, Murphy KD, Phillips LG. Wound healing. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 6.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 4/5/2018

Updated by: Michael Sobel, MD, Professor of Vascular Surgery, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Leg Injuries and Disorders
    * Vascular Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

