Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000687.htm    
                                Description: Femoral nerve dysfunction is a loss of movement or sensation in parts of the legs due to damage to the femoral nerve.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Femoral nerve dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000687.htm

# Femoral nerve dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Femoral nerve dysfunction is a loss of movement or sensation in parts of the
legs due to damage to the femoral nerve.

## Causes

The femoral nerve is located in the pelvis and goes down the front of theÂ
leg. It helps the muscles move the hip and straighten the leg. It provides
feeling (sensation) to the front of the thigh and part of the lower leg.

A nerve is made up of many fibers, called axons, surrounded by insulation,
called the myelin sheath.

Damage to any one nerve, such as the femoral nerve, is called mononeuropathy.
Mononeuropathy usually means there is a local cause of damage to a single
nerve. Disorders that involve the entire body (systemic disorders) can also
cause isolated nerve damage to one nerve at a time (such as occurs with
mononeuritis multiplex).

More common causes of femoral nerve dysfunction are:

    * Direct injury (trauma)
    * Prolonged pressure on the nerve
    * Compression, stretching, or entrapment of the nerve by nearby parts of the body or disease-related structures (such as a tumor or abnormal blood vessel)

The femoral nerve can be also be damaged from any of the following:

    * A broken pelvis bone
    * A catheter placed into the femoral artery in the groin
    * Diabetes or other causes of peripheral neuropathy
    * Internal bleeding in the pelvis or belly area (abdomen)
    * Lying on the back with the thighs and legs flexed and turned (lithotomy position) during surgery or diagnostic procedures
    * Tight or heavy waist belts

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Sensation changes in the thigh, knee, or leg, such as decreased sensation, numbness, tingling, burning, or pain
    * Weakness of the knee or leg, including difficulty going up and down stairs -- especially down, with a feeling of the knee giving way or buckling

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your symptoms and examine you.Â This
will include an exam of the nerves and muscles in your legs.

The exam may show that you have:

    * Weakness when you straighten the knee or bend at the hip
    * Sensation changes at the front of the thigh or in the foreleg
    * An abnormal knee reflex
    * Smaller than normal quadriceps muscles on the front of the thigh

Tests that may be done include:

    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * Nerve conduction tests (NCV), usually done at the same time as an EMG
    * MRI to check for masses or tumors

Your provider may order additional tests, depending on your medical history
and symptoms. Tests may include blood tests, x-rays, and other imaging tests.

## Treatment

Your provider will try to identify and treat the cause of the nerve damage.
You'll be treated for any medical problems (such as diabetes or bleeding in
the pelvis) that may be causing the nerve damage. In some cases, the nerve
will heal with treatment of the underlying medical problem.

Other treatments may include:

    * Surgery to remove a tumor or growth that is pressing on the nerve.
    * Medicines to relieve pain.
    * Weight loss and change in lifestyle if diabetes or excess weight is contributing to the nerve damage.

In some cases, no treatment is needed and you'll recover on your own. If so,
any treatment, such as physical therapy, is aimed at increasing mobility,
maintaining muscle strength, and independence while you recover. Braces or
splints may be prescribed to help in walking.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cause of the femoral nerve dysfunction can be identified and
successfully treated, it is possible to recover fully. In some cases, there
may be partial or complete loss of movement or sensation, resulting in some
degree of permanent disability.

Nerve pain may be uncomfortable and can continue for a long time. Injury to
the femoral area may also injure the femoral artery or vein, which can cause
bleeding and other problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Repeated injury to the leg that goes unnoticed due to loss of sensation
    * Injury from falls due to muscle weakness

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of femoral nerve dysfunction.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - femoral nerve; Femoral neuropathy

## Images

    * ![Femoral nerve damage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8786t.jpg)Femoral nerve damage

## References

Craig EJ, Clinchot DM. Femoral neuropathy. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo
TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 54.

Waldman SD. Femoral neuropathy. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas of Uncommon Pain
Syndromes_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 93.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

