Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002066.htm    
                                Description: A charley horse is the common name for a muscle spasm or cramp. Muscle spasms can occur in any muscle in the body, but often happen in the leg. When a muscle is in spasm, it contracts without your control    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Charley horse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002066.htm

# Charley horse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A charley horse is the common name for a muscle spasm or cramp. Muscle spasms
can occur in any muscle in the body, but often happen in the leg. When a
muscle is in spasm, it contracts without your control and does not relax.

## Causes

Muscle spasms often occur when a muscle is overused or injured. Things that
might bring on a muscle spasm include:

    * Exercising when you have not had enough fluids (you're dehydrated).
    * Having low levels of minerals such as potassium or calcium. 

Some spasms occur because the nerve that connects to a muscle is irritated.
One example is when a herniated disk irritates the spinal nerves and causes
pain and spasm in the back muscles.

Spasms in the calf often occur while kicking during swimming or running. They
can also happen at night when you are in bed. Upper leg spasms are more common
with running or jumping activities. Spasm in the neck (cervical spine) can be
a sign of stress.

## Symptoms

When a muscle goes into spasm it feels very tight. It is sometimes described
as a knot. The pain can be severe.

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose a spasm, your health care provider will look for tight or hard
muscles that are very tender to the touch. There are no imaging studies or
blood tests for this condition. If the spasm is caused by nerve irritation,
such as in the back, an MRI may be helpful to find the cause of the problem.

## Treatment

Stop your activity and try stretching and massaging the affected muscle at the
first sign of a spasm.

Heat will relax the muscle at first. Ice may be helpful after the first spasm
and when the pain has improved.

If the muscle is still sore after heat and ice, you can use nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory medicines to help with pain. In more severe cases, your health
care provider can prescribe antispasm medicines.

After you get treated, your provider should look for the cause of the spasm so
that it doesn't happen again. If an irritated nerve is involved, you might
need physical therapy or even surgery.

Drinking water or sports drinks when exercising can help ease cramps due to
dehydration. If drinking water alone is not enough, salt tablets or sports
drinks may help replace minerals in your body.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Muscle spasms will get better with rest and time. The outlook is excellent for
most people. Learning how to exercise properly with the right training and
enough fluid intake can prevent spasms from occurring regularly.

You might need other treatments if an irritated nerve caused the spasm.
Results from these treatments can vary.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have a muscle spasm with severe pain.
    * You have weakness with your muscle spasm.
    * You have a muscle spasm that does not stop and it spreads to other parts of the body.

Even if your spasms are not severe, your provider can help you change your
exercise program to reduce the risk of spasms in the future.

## Prevention

Things you can do to lessen the chance of muscle cramps include:

    * Stretch to improve your flexibility.
    * Change your workouts so that you are exercising within your ability.
    * Drink plenty of fluids while exercising and increase your potassium intake. Orange juice and bananas are great sources of potassium. 

## Alternative Names

Muscle spasm

## References

Geiderman JM, Katz D. General principles of orthopedic injuries. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 42.

Wang D, Eliasberg CD, Rodeo SA. Physiology and pathophysiology of
musculoskeletal tissues. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR. eds. _DeLee, Drez, and
Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 1.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Muscle Cramps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleCramps_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Cramps _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

