Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000792.htm    
                                Description: Tarsal tunnel syndrome is a condition in which the tibial nerve is being compressed. This is the nerve in the ankle that allows feeling and movement to parts of the foot. Tarsal tunnel syndrome can lead    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tarsal tunnel syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000792.htm

# Tarsal tunnel syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tarsal tunnel syndrome is a condition in which the tibial nerve is being
compressed. This is the nerve in the ankle that allows feeling and movement to
parts of the foot. Tarsal tunnel syndrome can lead to numbness, tingling,
weakness, or muscle damage mainly in the bottom of the foot.

## Causes

Tarsal tunnel syndrome is an unusual form of peripheral neuropathy. It occurs
when there is damage to the tibial nerve.

The area in the foot where the nerve enters the back of the ankle is called
the tarsal tunnel. This tunnel is normally narrow. When the tibial nerve is
compressed, it results in the symptoms of tarsal tunnel syndrome.

Pressure on the tibial nerve may be due to any of the following:

    * Swelling from an injury, such as a sprained ankle or nearby tendon
    * An abnormal growth, such as a bone spur, lump in the joint (ganglion cyst), swollen (varicose) vein
    * Flat feet or a high arch
    * Body-wide (systemic) diseases, such as diabetes, low thyroid function, arthritisÂ 

In some cases, no cause can be found.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Sensation changes in the bottom of the foot and toes, including burning sensation, numbness, tingling, or other abnormal sensation
    * Pain in the bottom of the foot and toes
    * Weakness of foot muscles
    * Weakness of the toes or ankle

In severe cases, the foot muscles are very weak, and the foot can be deformed.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your foot and ask about your symptoms.

During the exam, your provider may find you have the following signs:

    * Inability to curl the toes, push the foot down, or twist the ankle inward
    * Weakness in the ankle, foot, or toes

Tests that may be done include:

    * EMG (a recording of electrical activity in muscles)
    * Nerve biopsy
    * Nerve conduction tests (recording of electrical activity along the nerve)

Other tests that may be orderedÂ include blood tests and imaging tests, such
as x-ray,Â ultrasound, or MRI.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the symptoms.

    * Your provider will likely suggest first resting, putting ice on the ankle, and avoiding activities that cause symptoms.
    * Over-the-counter pain medicine, such as NSAIDs, may help relieve pain and swelling.
    * If symptoms are caused by a foot problem such as flat feet, custom orthotics or a brace may be prescribed.
    * Physical therapy may help strengthen the foot muscles and improve flexibility.
    * Steroid injection into the ankle may be needed.
    * Surgery to enlarge the tarsal tunnel or transfer the nerve may help reduce pressure on the tibial nerve.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A full recovery is possible if the cause of tarsal tunnel syndrome is found
and successfully treated. Some people may have a partial or complete loss of
movement or sensation. Nerve pain may be uncomfortable and last for a long
time.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, tarsal tunnel syndrome may lead to the following:

    * Deformity of the foot (mild to severe)
    * Movement loss in the toes (partial or complete)
    * Repeated or unnoticed injury to the leg
    * Sensation loss in the toes or foot (partial or complete)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of tarsal tunnel syndrome. Early
diagnosis and treatment increases the chance that symptoms can be controlled.

## Alternative Names

Tibial nerve dysfunction; Posterior tibial neuralgia; Neuropathy - posterior
tibial nerve; Peripheral neuropathy - tibial nerve; Tibial nerve entrapment

## Images

    * ![Tibial nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9973t.jpg)Tibial nerve

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 3/11/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

