Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000462.htm    
                                Description: A ureterocele is a swelling at the bottom of one of the ureters. Ureters are the tubes that carry urine from the kidney to the bladder. The swollen area can block urine flow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ureterocele

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000462.htm

# Ureterocele

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ureterocele is a swelling at the bottom of one of the ureters. Ureters are
the tubes that carry urine from the kidney to the bladder. The swollen area
can block urine flow.

A ureterocele is a birth defect.

## Causes

A ureterocele occurs in the lower part of the ureter. It is the part where the
tube enters the bladder. The swollen area prevents urine from moving freely
into the bladder. The urine collects in the ureter and stretches its walls. It
expands like a water balloon.

A ureterocele can also cause urine to flow backward from the bladder to the
kidney. This is called reflux.

Ureteroceles occur in about 1 in 500 people. This condition is equally common
in both the left and right ureters.

## Symptoms

Most people with ureteroceles do not have any symptoms. When symptoms do
occur, they may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Back pain that may be only on one side
    * Severe side (flank) pain and spasms that may reach to the groin, genitals, and thigh
    * Blood in the urine
    * Burning pain while urinating (dysuria)
    * Fever
    * Difficulty starting urine flow or slowing of urine flow 

Some other symptoms are:

    * Foul-smelling urine
    * Frequent and urgent urination
    * Lump (mass) in the abdomen that can be felt
    * Ureterocele tissue falls down (prolapse) through the female urethra and into the vagina
    * Urinary incontinence

## Exams and Tests

Large ureteroceles are often diagnosed earlier than smaller ones. It may be
discovered in a pregnancy ultrasound before the baby is born.

Some people with ureteroceles do not know they have the condition. Often, the
problem is found later in life due to kidney stones or infection.

A urinalysis may reveal blood in the urine or signs of urinary tract
infection.

The following tests may be done:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * Cystoscopy (examination of the inside of the bladder)
    * Pyelogram
    * Radionuclide renal scan
    * Voiding cystourethrogram

Blood pressure may be high if there is kidney damage.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are often given to prevent further infections until surgery can be
done.

The goal of treatment is to eliminate the blockage. Drains placed in the
ureter or renal area (stents) may provide short-term relief of symptoms.

Surgery to repair the ureterocele cures the condition in most cases. Your
surgeon may cut into the ureterocele. Another surgery may involve removing the
ureterocele and reattaching the ureter to the bladder. The type of surgery
depends on your age, overall health, and extent of the blockage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. The damage may be temporary if the blockage can be cured.
However, damage to the kidney may be permanent if the condition doesn't go
away.

Kidney failure is uncommon. The other kidney will most often work normally.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Long-term bladder damage (urinary retention)
    * Long-term kidney damage, including loss of function in one kidney
    * Urinary tract infection that keeps coming back 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of ureterocele.

## Alternative Names

Incontinence - ureterocele

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Ureterocele](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9114t.jpg)Ureterocele

## References

Guay-Woodford LM. Hereditary nephropathies and developmental abnormalities of
the urinary tract. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 128.

Peters CA, Mendelsohn C. Ectopic ureter, ureterocele, and ureteral anomalies.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 134.

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ureteral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UreteralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ureteral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

