Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007704.htm    
                                Description: The ureters are the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Ureteral reimplantation is surgery to change the position of these tubes where they enter the bladder wall.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ureteral reimplantation surgery - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007704.htm

# Ureteral reimplantation surgery - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ureters are the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder.
Ureteral reimplantation is surgery to change the position of these tubes where
they enter the bladder wall.

## Description

This procedure changes the way the ureter is attached to the bladder.

The surgery takes place in the hospital while your child is asleep and pain-
free. The surgery takes 2 to 3 hours.

During surgery, the surgeon will:

    * Detach the ureter from the bladder.
    * Create a new tunnel between the bladder wall and muscle in a better position in the bladder.
    * Place the ureter in the new tunnel.
    * Stitch the ureter in place and close the bladder with stitches.
    * If needed, this will be done to the other ureter.
    * Close any cut made in your child's belly with stitches or staples.

The surgery can be done in 3 ways. The method used will depend on your child's
condition and how the ureters need to be reattached to the bladder.

    * In open surgery, the doctor will make a small incision in the lower belly through muscle and fat.
    * In laparoscopic surgery, the doctor will perform the procedure using a camera and small surgical tools through 3 or 4 small cuts in the belly.
    * Robotic surgery is similar to laparoscopic surgery, except that the instruments are held in place by a robot. The surgeon controls the robot.

Your child will be discharged 1 to 2 days after the surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The surgery is done to prevent urine from flowing backwards from the bladder
to the kidneys. This is called reflux, and it can cause repeat urinary tract
infections and damage the kidneys.

This type of surgery is common in children for reflux due to a birth defect of
the urinary system. In older children, it may be done to treat reflux due to
injury or disease.

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Breathing problems
    * Infection, including in the surgical wound, lungs (pneumonia), bladder, or kidney
    * Blood loss
    * Reactions to medicines

Risks for this procedure are:

    * Urine leaking out into the space around the bladder
    * Blood in the urine
    * Kidney infection
    * Bladder spasms
    * Blockage of the ureters
    * It may not fix the problem

Long-term risks include:

    * Persistent back flow of urine into the kidneys
    * Urinary fistula

## Before the Procedure

You will be given specific eating and drinking instructions based on your
child's age. Your child's doctor may recommend that you:

    * Do not give your child any solid foods or non-clear liquids, such as milk and orange juice,Â starting at midnight before the surgery.
    * Give only clear liquids,Â such asÂ apple juice, to older children up to 2 hours before surgery.
    * Breastfeed children up to 4 hours before surgery. Formula-fed babies may feed up to 6 hours before surgery.
    * Do not give your child anything to drink for 2 hours before the surgery.
    * Only give your child medicines the doctor recommends.  
  

## After the Procedure

After surgery, your child will receive fluids in a vein (IV). Along with this,
your child may also be given medicine to relieve pain and calm bladder spasms.

Your child may have a catheter, a tube that will come from your child's
bladder to drain the urine. There also may be a drain in your child's belly to
let fluids drain after surgery. These may be removed before your child is
discharged. If not, the doctor will tell you how to care for them and when to
come back to have them removed.

When your child comes out of anesthesia, your child may cry, be fussy or
confused, and feel sick or vomit. These reactions are normal and will go away
with time.

Your child will need to stay in the hospital for 1 to 2 days, depending on the
type of surgery your child had.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The surgery is successful in most children.

## Alternative Names

Ureteroneocystostomy - children; Ureteral reimplant surgery - children;
Ureteral reimplant; Reflux in children - ureteral reimplantation

## References

Elder JS. Vesicoureteral reflux. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 554.

Khoury AE, BÃ¤gli DJ. Vesicoureteral reflux. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA;
Elsevier; 2016:chap 137.

Pope JC. Ureteroneocystostomy. In: Smith JA Jr, Howards SS, Preminger GM,
Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 33.

Richstone L, Scherr DS. Robotic and laparoscopic bladder surgery. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA; Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ureteral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UreteralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ureteral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

