Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000463.htm    
                                Description: Retroperitoneal fibrosis is a rare disorder that blocks the tubes (ureters) that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retroperitoneal fibrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000463.htm

# Retroperitoneal fibrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retroperitoneal fibrosis is a rare disorder that blocks the tubes (ureters)
that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder.

## Causes

Retroperitoneal fibrosis occurs when extra fibrous tissue forms in the area
behind the stomach and intestines. The tissue forms a mass (or masses) or
tough fibrotic tissue. It can block the tubes that carry urine from the kidney
to the bladder.

The cause of this problem is mostly unknown. It is most common in people aged
40 to 60. Men are twice as likely to develop the condition as women.

## Symptoms

Early symptoms:

    * Dull pain in the abdomen that increases with time
    * Pain and change of color in the legs (due to decreased blood flow)
    * Swelling of one leg 

Later symptoms:

    * Decreased urine output
    * No urine output (anuria)
    * Nausea, vomiting, changes in mental status caused by kidney failure and build-up of toxic chemicals in the blood
    * Severe abdominal pain with blood in the stool (due to death of intestinal tissue) 

## Exams and Tests

Abdominal CT scan is the best way to find a retroperitoneal mass.

Other tests that can help diagnose this condition include:

    * BUN and creatinine blood tests
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), not as commonly used
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * MRI of the abdomen
    * CAT scan of the abdomen and retroperitoneum 

A biopsy of the mass may also be done to rule out cancer.

## Treatment

Corticosteroids are tried first. SomeÂ health care providersÂ also prescribe a
drug called tamoxifen.

If corticosteroid treatment does not work, a biopsy should be done to confirm
the diagnosis. Other medicines to suppress the immune system can be
prescribed.

When medicine does not work, surgery and stents (draining tubes) are needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook will depend on the extent of the problem and the amount of damage
to the kidneys.

The kidney damage may be temporary or permanent.

## Possible Complications

The disorder may lead to:

    * Ongoing blockage of the tubes leading from the kidney on one or both sides
    * Chronic kidney failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have lower abdomen or flank pain and less output of
urine.

## Prevention

Try to avoid long-term use of medicines that contain methysergide. This drug
has been shown to cause retroperitoneal fibrosis. Methysergide is sometimes
used to treat migraine headaches.

## Alternative Names

Idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis; Ormond's disease

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Comperat E, Bonsib SM, Cheng L. Renal pelvis and ureter. In: Cheng L,
MacLennan GT, Bostwick DG, eds. _Urologic Surgical Pathology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 3.

Nakada SY, Best SL. Management of upper urinary tract obstruction. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters, CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

O'Connor OJ, Maher MM. The urinary tract: overview of anatomy, techniques and
radiation issues. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 35.

Shanmugam VK. Vasculitis and other uncommon arteriopathies. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 137.

Turnage RH, Mizell J, Badgwell B. Abdominal wall, umbilicus, peritoneum,
mesenteries, omentum, and retroperitoneum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ureteral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UreteralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ureteral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

