Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001494.htm    
                                Description: Cervical polyps are fingerlike growths on the lower part of the uterus that connects with the vagina (cervix).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervical polyps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001494.htm

# Cervical polyps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervical polyps are fingerlike growths on the lower part of the uterus that
connects with the vagina (cervix).

## Causes

The exact cause of cervical polyps is not known. They may occur with:

    * An abnormal response to increased levels of the female hormone estrogen
    * Chronic inflammation
    * Clogged blood vessels in the cervix

Cervical polyps are common. They are often found in women over age 40 who have
had many children. Polyps are rare in young women who have not started having
their period (menstruation).

Most women have only one polyp. Some women have two or three.

## Symptoms

Polyps do not always cause symptoms. When symptoms are present, they may
include:

    * Very heavy menstrual periods
    * Vaginal bleeding after douching or intercourse
    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding after menopause or between periods
    * White or yellow mucus (leukorrhea)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform your pelvic exam. Some smooth, red or
purple fingerlike growths will be seen on the cervix.

Most often, the provider will remove the polyp with a gentle tug and send it
for testing. Most of the time, the biopsy will show cells that are consistent
with a benign polyp. Rarely, there may be abnormal, precancerous, or cancer
cells in a polyp.

## Treatment

The provider can remove polyps during a simple, outpatient procedure.

    * Smaller polyps may be removed with gentle twisting.
    * Electrocautery may be needed to remove larger polyps.

The removed polyp tissue should be sent to a lab for further tests.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most polyps are not cancerous (benign) and are easy to remove. Polyps do not
grow back most of the time. Women who have polyps are at risk of growing more
polyps.

## Possible Complications

There may be bleeding and slight cramping for a few days after removal of a
polyp. Some cervical cancers may first appear as a polyp. Certain uterine
polypsÂ may be associated with uterine cancer.Â

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Abnormal bleeding from the vagina, including bleeding after sex or between periods
    * Abnormal discharge from the vagina
    * Abnormally heavy periods 

Call your provider to schedule regular gynecological exams. Ask how often you
should receive a Pap test.

## Prevention

See your provider to treat infections as soon as possible.

## Alternative Names

Vaginal bleeding - polyps

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Cervical polyps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17036t.jpg)Cervical polyps
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Smalls AJ. Cervical polyps. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:271.e4-271.e4.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervix
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervixDisorder_thumb.jpg)Cervix
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

