Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001491.htm    
                                Description: Cervical dysplasia refers to abnormal changes in the cells on the surface of the cervix. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervical dysplasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001491.htm

# Cervical dysplasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervical dysplasia refers to abnormal changes in the cells on the surface of
the cervix. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus (womb) that opens at
the top of the vagina.

The changes are not cancer. But they are considered to be precancerous. This
means they can lead to cancer of the cervix if not treated.

## Causes

Cervical dysplasia can develop at any age. However, follow up and treatment
will depend on your age. Cervical dysplasia is caused by the human
papillomavirus (HPV). HPV is a common virus that is spread through sexual
contact. There are many types of HPV. Some types lead to cervical dysplasia or
cancer. Other types of HPV can cause genital warts.

The following may increase your risk for cervical dysplasia:

    * Having sex before age 18
    * Having a baby at very young age
    * Having had multiple sexual partners
    * Having other illnesses, such as tuberculosis or HIV
    * Using medicines that suppress your immune system
    * Smoking 

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a pelvic exam to check cervical
dysplasia. The initial test is usually a Pap smear and a test for the presence
of HPV.

Cervical dysplasia that is seen on a Pap smear is called squamous
intraepithelial lesion (SIL). On the Pap smear report, these changes will be
described as:

    * Low-grade (LSIL)
    * High-grade (HSIL)
    * Possibly cancerous (malignant)
    * Atypical glandular cells (AGC)
    * Atypical squamous cells (ASC)

You will need more tests if a Pap smear shows abnormal cells or cervical
dysplasia. If the changes were mild, follow-up Pap smears may be all that is
needed.

The provider may perform a biopsy to confirm the condition. This may be done
with the use of colposcopy. Any areas of concern will be biopsied. The
biopsies are very small and most women feel only a small cramp.

Dysplasia that is seen on a biopsy of the cervix is called cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). It is grouped into 3 categories:

    * CIN I -- mild dysplasia
    * CIN II -- moderate to marked dysplasia
    * CIN III -- severe dysplasia to carcinoma in situ 

Some strains of HPV are known to cause cervical cancer. An HPV DNA test can
identify the high-risk types of HPV linked to this cancer. This test may be
done:

    * As a screening test for women over age 30
    * For women of any age who have a slightly abnormal Pap test result 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the degree of dysplasia. Mild dysplasia (LSIL or CIN I)
may go away without treatment.

    * You may only need careful follow-up by your provider with repeat Pap smears every 6 to 12 months.
    * If the changes do not go away or get worse, treatment is needed.

Treatment for moderate-to-severe dysplasia or mild dysplasia that does not go
away may include:

    * Cryosurgery to freeze abnormal cells
    * Laser therapy, which uses light to burn away abnormal tissue
    * LEEP (loop electrosurgical excision procedure), which uses electricity to remove abnormal tissue
    * Surgery to remove the abnormal tissue (cone biopsy)
    * Hysterectomy (in rare cases) 

If you have had dysplasia, you will need to have repeat exams every 12 months
or as suggested by your provider.

Make sure to get the HPV vaccine when it is offered to you. This vaccine
prevents many cervical cancers.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early diagnosis and prompt treatment cures most cases of cervical dysplasia.
However, the condition may return.

Without treatment, severe cervical dysplasia may change into cervical cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your age is 21 or older and you have never had a pelvic
exam and Pap smear.

## Prevention

Ask your provider about the HPV vaccine. Girls who receive this vaccine before
they become sexually active reduce their chance of getting cervical cancer.

You can reduce your risk of developing cervical dysplasia by taking the
following steps:

    * Get vaccinated for HPV between ages 9 to 26.
    * Do not smoke. Smoking increases your risk of developing more severe dysplasia and cancer.
    * Do not have sex until you are 18 or older.
    * Practice safe sex. Use a condom.
    * Practice monogamy. This means you have onlyÂ one sexual partner at a time. 

## Alternative Names

Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia - dysplasia; CIN - dysplasia; Precancerous
changes of the cervix - dysplasia; Cervical cancer - dysplasia; Squamous
intraepithelial lesion - dysplasia; LSIL - dysplasia; HSIL - dysplasia; Low-
grade dysplasia; High-grade dysplasia; Carcinoma in situ - dysplasia; CIS -
dysplasia; ASCUS - dysplasia; Atypical glandular cells - dysplasia; AGUS -
dysplasia; Atypical squamous cells - dysplasia; Pap smear - dysplasia; HPV -
dysplasia; Human papilloma virus - dysplasia; Cervix - dysplasia; Colposcopy -
dysplasia

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Cervical neoplasia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17034t.jpg)Cervical neoplasia
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Cervical dysplasia - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10215t.jpg)Cervical dysplasia - series

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Practice Bulletin No.
168: cervical cancer screening and prevention. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2016;128(4):e111-e130. PMID: 27661651 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27661651.

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Practice Bulletin No.
140: management of abnormal cervical cancer screening test results and
cervical cancer precursors. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(6):1338-1367. PMID:
24264713 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24264713.

Hacker NF. Cervical dysplasia and cancer. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

Immunization Expert Work Group, Committee on Adolescent Health Care. Committee
Opinion No. 704: human papillomavirus vaccination. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2017;129(6):e173-e178. PMID: 28346275 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28346275.

Kim DK, Riley LE, Hunter P; Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
Recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older, United
States, 2018. _Ann Intern Med_. 2018;168(3):210-220. PMID: 29404596
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29404596.

Robinson CL, Romero JR, Kempe A, Pellegrini C, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee
on Immunization Practices Recommended immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2018. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2018;67(5):156-157. PMID: 29420458
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29420458.

Salcedo MP, Baker ES, Schmeler KM. Intraepithelial neoplasia of the lower
genital tract (cervix, vagina, vulva): etiology, screening, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Saslow D, Solomon D, Lawson HW, et al; ACS-ASCCP-ASCP Cervical Cancer
Guideline Committee. American Cancer Society, American Society for Colposcopy
and Cervical Pathology, and American Society for Clinical Pathology screening
guidelines for the prevention and early detection of cervical cancer. _CA
Cancer J Clin_. 2012;62(3):147-172. PMID: 22422631
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22422631.

Spriggs D. Gynecologic cancers. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 199.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervical
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancer2_thumb.jpg)Cervical
Cancer _Read more_

![Cervix
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervixDisorder_thumb.jpg)Cervix
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

