Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002917.htm    
                                Description: Cervix cryosurgery is a procedure to freeze and destroy abnormal tissue in the cervix.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervix cryosurgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002917.htm

# Cervix cryosurgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervix cryosurgery is a procedure to freeze and destroy abnormal tissue in the
cervix.

## Description

Cryotherapy is done in the health care provider's office while you are awake.Â
You may have slight cramping. You may have some amount of pain during the
surgery.

To perform the procedure:

    * An instrument is inserted into the vagina to hold the walls open so that the doctor can see the cervix. 
    * The doctor then inserts a device called a cryoprobe into the vagina. The device is placed firmly on the surface of the cervix, covering the abnormal tissue.
    * Compressed nitrogen gas flows through the instrument, making the metal cold enough to freeze and destroy the tissue.

An "ice ball" forms on the cervix, killing the abnormal cells. For the
treatment to be most effective:

    * The freezing is done for 3 minutes
    * The cervix is allowed to thaw for 5 minutes
    * Freezing is repeated for another 3 minutes 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure may be done to:

    * Treat cervicitis
    * Treat cervical dysplasia

Your provider will help you to decide if cryosurgery is right for your
condition.

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Cryosurgery may cause scarring of the cervix, but most of the time, it is very
minor. More severe scarring may make it more difficult to get pregnant, or
cause increased cramping with menstrual periods.

## Before the Procedure

Your provider may suggest you to take medicine such as ibuprofen 1 hour before
the procedure. This may reduce pain during the procedure.

## After the Procedure

You might feel lightheaded right after the procedure. If this happens, lie
down flat on the examination table so that you do not faint. This feeling
should go away in a few minutes.

You can resume almost all of your normal activities right after surgery.

For 2 to 3 weeks after the surgery, you will have a lot of watery discharge
caused by the shedding (sloughing) of the dead cervical tissue.

You may need to avoid sexual intercourse and using tampons for several weeks.

Avoid douching. This can cause severe infections in the uterus and tubes.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your provider should do a repeat Pap test or biopsy at a follow-up visit to
make sure that all abnormal tissue was destroyed.

You may need more frequent Pap smears for the first 2 years after cryosurgery
for cervical dysplasia.

## Alternative Names

Cervix surgery; Cryosurgery - female; Cervical dysplasia - cryosurgery

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Cervical cryosurgery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17042t.jpg)Cervical cryosurgery
    * ![Cervical cryosurgery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9168t.jpg)Cervical cryosurgery

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Practice Bulletin No.
140: management of abnormal cervical cancer screening test results and
cervical cancer precursors. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(6):1338-1367. PMID:
24264713 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24264713.

Salcedo ML, Baker ES, Schmeler KM. Intraepithelial neoplasia of the lower
genital tract (cervix, vagina, vulva): etiology, screening, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Smith RP. Cervical cryocautery. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 262.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervical
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancer2_thumb.jpg)Cervical
Cancer _Read more_

![Cervix
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervixDisorder_thumb.jpg)Cervix
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

