Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000595.htm    
                                Description: Insufficient cervix occur when the cervix begins to soften too early in a pregnancy. This could cause miscarriage or premature birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insufficient cervix

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000595.htm

# Insufficient cervix

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Insufficient cervix occur when the cervix begins to soften too early in a
pregnancy. This could cause miscarriage or premature birth.

## What is an Insufficient Cervix?

The cervix is the narrow lower end of the uterus that goes into the vagina.

    * In a normal pregnancy, the cervix stays firm, long, and closed until late in the 3rd trimester.
    * In the 3rd trimester, the cervix starts to soften, get shorter, and open up (dilate) as a woman's body prepares for labor. 

An insufficient cervix may begin to dilate too early in pregnancy. If there is
an insufficient cervix, the following problems are more likely to occur:

    * Miscarriage in the 2nd trimester
    * Labor begins too early, before 37 weeks
    * Bag of waters breaks before 37 weeks
    * A premature (early) delivery 

## What Causes it?

No one knows for sure what causes an insufficient cervix, but these things may
increase a woman's risk:

    * Being pregnant with more than 1 baby (twins, triplets)
    * Having an insufficient cervix in an earlier pregnancy
    * Having a torn cervix from an earlier birth
    * Having past miscarriages by the 4th month
    * Having past first or second semester abortions
    * Having a cervix that did not develop normally
    * Having a cone biopsy or loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) on the cervix in the past due to an abnormal Pap smear 

## How do I Know I Have it?

Often, you will not have any signs or symptoms of an insufficient cervix
unless you have a problem it might cause. That is how many women first find
out about it.

If you have any of the risk factors for insufficient cervix:

    * Your health care provider may do an ultrasound to look at your cervix when you are planning a pregnancy, or early in your pregnancy.
    * You may have physical exam and ultrasounds more often during your pregnancy. 

An insufficient cervix may cause these symptoms in the 2nd trimester:

    * Abnormal spotting or bleeding
    * Increasing pressure or cramps in the lower abdomen and pelvis 

## How is it Treated?

If there is a threat of premature birth, your provider may suggest bed rest.
However, this has not been proven to prevent loss of pregnancy, and may result
in complications for the mother.

Your provider may suggest you have a cerclage. This is a surgery to treat an
insufficient cervix. During a cerclage:

    * Your cervix will be stitched closed with a strong thread that will remain in place during the whole pregnancy.
    * Your stitches will be removed near the end of the pregnancy, or sooner if labor begins early.

Cerclages work well for many women.

Sometimes, medicines such as progesterone are prescribed instead of a
cerclage. These help in some cases.

Talk with your provider about your situation and treatment options.

## Alternative Names

Incompetent cervix; Weak cervix; Pregnancy - insufficient cervix; Premature
labor - insufficient cervix; Preterm labor - insufficient cervix

## References

Buhimschi CS, Mesiano S, Muglia LJ. Pathogenesis of spontaneous preterm birth.
In: Resnick R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds.
_Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 7.

Ludmir J, Owen J, Berghella V. Cervical insufficiency. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Keyhan S, Muasher L, Muasher SJ. Spontaneous abortion and recurrent pregnancy
loss: etiology, diagnosis, treatment. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 16.

Smith RP. Cervical insufficiency. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 221.

Sciscione A. Cervical insufficiency. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:306.e2-306.e3.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cervix Disorders
    * Health Problems in Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

