Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001514.htm    
                                Description: A nabothian cyst is a lump filled with mucus on the surface of the cervix.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nabothian cyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001514.htm

# Nabothian cyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nabothian cyst is a lump filled with mucus on the surface of the cervix.

The cervix is located at the lower end of the womb (uterus) at the top of the
vagina. It is about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) long.

## Causes

The cervix is lined with glands and cells that release mucus. The glands can
become covered by a type of skin cells called squamous epithelium. When this
happens, the secretions build up in the plugged glands. They form a smooth,
rounded bump on the cervix. The bump is called a nabothian cyst.

## Symptoms

Each nabothian cyst appears as a small, white raised bump. There can be more
than one.

## Exams and Tests

During a pelvic exam, the health care provider will see a small, smooth,
rounded lump (or collection of lumps) on the surface of the cervix. Rarely,
magnifying the area (colposcopy) may be needed to tell these cysts from other
bumps that can occur.

Most women have small nabothian cysts. These are detected by vaginal
ultrasound. If you're told you have a nabothian cyst during a vaginal
ultrasound exam, don't be concerned, as their presence is normal.

Sometimes the cyst is opened to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

No treatment is necessary. Nabothian cysts do not cause any problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Nabothian cysts do not cause any harm. They are a benign condition.

## Possible Complications

The presence of many cysts or cysts that are large and blocked can make it
hard for the provider to do a Pap test. This is rare.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most of the time, this condition is found during a routine pelvic exam.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Images

    * ![Nabothian cyst](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17090t.jpg)Nabothian cyst

## References

Choby BA. Cervical polyps. In: Pfenninger JL, Fowler GC, eds. _Pfenninger and
Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Mosby; 2011:chap 135.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Hertzberg BS, Middleton WD. Pelvis and uterus. In: Hertzberg BS, Middleton WD,
eds. _Ultrasound: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 23.

Malpica A. Cervical benign and non-neoplastic conditions. In: Mutter GL, Prat
J, eds. _Pathology of the Female Reproductive Tract_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 8.

Mendiratta V, Lentz GM. History, physical examination, and preventive health
care. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervix
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervixDisorder_thumb.jpg)Cervix
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

