Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003260.htm    
                                Description: Indigestion (dyspepsia) is a mild discomfort in the upper belly or abdomen. It often occurs during or right after eating. It may feel like:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Indigestion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003260.htm

# Indigestion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Indigestion (dyspepsia) is a mild discomfort in the upper belly or abdomen. It
often occurs during or right after eating. It may feel like:

    * Heat, burning, or pain in the area between the navel and the lower part of the breastbone
    * Unpleasant fullness that starts soon after a meal begins or when the meal is over 

Bloating and nausea are less common symptoms.

Indigestion is NOT the same as heartburn.

## Causes

Most of the time, indigestion is not a sign of a serious health problem unless
it occurs with other symptoms. These may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Weight loss 

Rarely, the discomfort of a heart attack is mistaken for indigestion.

Indigestion may be triggered by:

    * Drinking too many caffeinated beverages
    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Eating spicy, fatty, or greasy foods
    * Eating too much (overeating)
    * Eating too fast
    * Eating high-fiber foods
    * Smoking or chewing tobacco
    * Stress or being nervous 

Other causes of indigestion are:

    * Gallstones
    * Gastritis (when the lining of the stomach becomes inflamed or swollen)
    * Swelling of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Ulcers (stomach or intestinal ulcer)
    * Use of certain medicines such as antibiotics, aspirin, and over-the-counter pain medicines (NSAIDs such as ibuprofen or naproxen) 

## Home Care

Changing the way you eat may help your symptoms. Steps you can take include:

    * Allow enough time for meals.
    * Avoid arguments during meals.
    * Avoid excitement or exercise right after a meal.
    * Chew food carefully and completely.
    * Relax and get rest if indigestion is caused by stress. 

Avoid aspirin and other NSAIDs. If you must take them, do so on a full
stomach.

Antacids may relieve indigestion.

Medicines you can buy without a prescription, such as ranitidine (Zantac) and
omeprazole (Prilosec OTC) can relieve symptoms. Your health care provider may
also prescribe these medicines in higher doses or for longer periods of time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if your symptoms include jaw pain, chest pain,
back pain, heavy sweating, anxiety, or a feeling of impending doom. These are
possible heart attack symptoms.

Call your provider if:

    * Your indigestion symptoms change noticeably.
    * Your symptoms last longer than a few days.
    * You have unexplained weight loss.
    * You have sudden, severe abdominal pain.
    * You have trouble swallowing.
    * You have yellow coloring of the skin and eyes (jaundice).
    * You vomit blood or pass blood in the stool.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical exam on the stomach area and digestive tract.
You will be asked questions about your symptoms.

You may have some tests, including:

    * Blood tests
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (upper endoscopy)
    * Ultrasound test of the abdomen

## Alternative Names

Dyspepsia; Uncomfortable fullness after meals

## Patient Instructions

    * Taking antacids

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Mayer EA. Functional gastrointestinal disorders: irritable bowel syndrome,
dyspepsia, chest pain of presumed esophageal origin, and heartburn. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 137.

Tack J. Dyspepsia. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Indigestion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Indigestion_thumb.jpg)Indigestion
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

