Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003975.htm    
                                Description: Pelvic floor muscle trainingÂ exercises are a series of exercises designed to strengthen the muscles of the pelvic floor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic floor muscle training exercises

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003975.htm

# Pelvic floor muscle training exercises

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pelvic floor muscle trainingÂ exercises are a series of exercises designed to
strengthen the muscles of the pelvic floor.

## Information

Pelvic floor muscle training exercises are recommended for:

    * Women with urinary stress incontinence
    * Men with urinary stress incontinence after prostate surgery
    * People who have fecal incontinence

Pelvic floor muscle training exercises can help strengthen the muscles under
the uterus, bladder, and bowel (large intestine). They can help both men and
women who have problems with urine leakage or bowel control.

A pelvic floor muscle training exercise is like pretending that you have to
urinate, and then holding it. You relax and tighten the muscles that control
urine flow. It is important to find the right muscles to tighten.

The next time you have to urinate, start to go and then stop. Feel the muscles
in your vagina, bladder, or anus get tight and move up. These are the pelvic
floor muscles. If you feel them tighten, you have done the exercise right. Do
not make it a habit to do the exercises each time while you urinate. Once you
can comfortably identify the muscles, perform the exercises while seated, but
NOT when you are urinating.

If you are still not sure whether you are tightening the right muscles, keep
in mind that all of the muscles of the pelvic floor relax and contract at the
same time. Because these muscles control the bladder, rectum, and vagina, the
following tips may help:

    * Women: Insert a finger into your vagina. Tighten the muscles as if you are holding in your urine, then let go. You should feel the muscles tighten and move up and down.
    * Men: Insert a finger into your rectum. Tighten the muscles as if you are holding in your urine, then let go. You should feel the muscles tighten and move up and down. These are the same muscles you would tighten if you were trying to prevent yourself from passing gas. 

It is very important that you keep the following muscles relaxed while doing
pelvic floor muscle training exercises:

    * Abdominal
    * Buttocks (the deeper, anal sphincter muscle should contract)
    * Thigh 

A woman can also strengthen these muscles by using a vaginal cone, which is a
weighted device that is inserted into the vagina. Then you try to tighten the
pelvic floor muscles to hold the device in place.

If you are unsure whether you are doing the pelvic floor muscle training
correctly, you can use biofeedback and electrical stimulation to help find the
correct muscle group to work.

    * Biofeedback is a method of positive reinforcement. Electrodes are placed on the abdomen and along the anal area. Some therapists place a sensor in the vagina in women or anus in men to monitor the contraction of pelvic floor muscles.
    * A monitor will display a graph showing which muscles are contracting and which are at rest. The therapist can help find the right muscles for performing pelvic floor muscle training exercises. 

PERFORMING PELVIC FLOOR EXERCISES:

Follow these steps:

    1. Begin by emptying your bladder.
    2. Tighten the pelvic floor muscles and hold for a count of 10.
    3. Relax the muscles completely for a count of 10.
    4. Do 10 repetitions, 3 to 5 times a day (morning, afternoon, and night). 

You can do these exercises at any time and place. Most people prefer to do the
exercises while lying down or sitting in a chair. After 4 to 6 weeks, most
people notice some improvement. It may take as long as 3 months to see a major
change.

After a couple of weeks, you can also try doing a single pelvic floor
contraction at times when you are likely to leak (for example, while getting
out of a chair).

A word of caution: Some people feel that they can speed up the progress by
increasing the number of repetitions and the frequency of exercises. However,
over-exercising can instead cause muscle fatigue and increase urine leakage.

If you feel any discomfort in your abdomen or back while doing these
exercises, you are probably doing them wrong. Breathe deeply and relax your
body when you do these exercises. Make sure you are not tightening your
stomach, thigh, buttock, or chest muscles.

When done the right way, pelvic floor muscle exercises have been shown to be
very effective at improving urinary continence.

There are physical therapists specially trained in pelvic floor muscle
training. Many people benefit from formal physical therapy.

## Alternative Names

Kegel exercises

## Images

    * ![Female perineal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9073t.jpg)Female perineal anatomy

## References

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Magowan BA, Owen P, Thomson A. Female urinary incontinence. In: Magowan BA,
Owen P, Thomson A, eds. _Clinical Obstetrics and Gynaecology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

## Review Date 10/10/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pelvic Support
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicSupportProblems_thumb.jpg)Pelvic
Floor Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

