Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001132.htm    
                                Description: Rectal prolapse occurs when the rectum sags and comes through the anal opening.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rectal prolapse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001132.htm

# Rectal prolapse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rectal prolapse occurs when the rectum sags and comes through the anal
opening.

## Causes

The exact cause of rectal prolapse is unclear. Possible causes may include any
of the following:

    * An enlarged opening due to relaxed muscles in the pelvic floor, which is formed of muscles around the rectum
    * Loose muscles of the anal sphincter
    * An abnormally long colon
    * Downward movement of the abdominal cavity between the rectum and uterus
    * Prolapse of the small intestine
    * Constipation
    * Diarrhea
    * Chronic coughing and sneezing

A prolapse can be partial or complete:

    * With a partial prolapse, the inner lining of the rectum bulges partly from the anus.
    * With a complete prolapse, the entire rectum bulges through the anus.

Rectal prolapse occurs most often in children under age 6. Health problems
that may lead to prolapse include:

    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Intestinal worm infections
    * Long-term diarrhea
    * Other health problems present at birth

In adults, it is usually found with constipation, or with a muscle or nerve
problem in the pelvic or genital area.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a reddish-colored mass that sticks out from the opening of
the anus, especially after a bowel movement. This reddish mass is actually the
inner lining of the rectum. It may bleed slightly and can be uncomfortable and
painful.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which will include a
rectal exam. To check for prolapse, the provider may ask the person to bear
down while sitting on a toilet.

Tests that may be done include:

    * ColonoscopyÂ to confirm the diagnosis
    * Blood test to check for anemia if there is bleeding from the rectum

## Treatment

Call your provider if a rectal prolapse occurs.

In some cases, the prolapse can be treated at home. Follow your provider's
instructions on how to do this. The rectum must be pushed back inside
manually. A soft, warm, wet cloth is used to apply gentle pressure to the mass
to push it back through the anal opening. The person should lie on one side in
a knee-chest position before applying pressure. This position allows gravity
to help put the rectum back into position.

Immediate surgery is rarely needed. In children, treating the cause often
solves the problem. For example, if the cause is straining because of dry
stools, laxatives may help. If the prolapse continues, surgery may be needed.

In adults, the only cure for rectal prolapse is a procedure that repairs the
weakened anal sphincter and pelvic muscles.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In children, treating the cause cures rectal prolapse. In adults, surgery
usually cures the prolapse.

When rectal prolapse is not treated, constipation and loss of bowel control
may develop.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your providerÂ right awayÂ if there is a rectal prolapse.

## Prevention

In children, treating the cause usually prevents rectal prolapse from
happening again.

## Alternative Names

Procidentia; Rectal intussusception

## Images

    * ![Rectal prolapse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9809t.jpg)Rectal prolapse
    * ![Rectal prolapse repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7161t.jpg)Rectal prolapse repair - series

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Surgical conditions of the
anus and rectum. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 344.

Lembo AJ. Constipation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

Madoff RD. Diseases of the rectum and anus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 145.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pelvic Support
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicSupportProblems_thumb.jpg)Pelvic
Floor Disorders _Read more_

![Rectal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RectalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Rectal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

