Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001508.htm    
                                Description: Uterine prolapse occurs when the womb (uterus) drops down and presses into the vaginal area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uterine prolapse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001508.htm

# Uterine prolapse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uterine prolapse occurs when the womb (uterus) drops down and presses into the
vaginal area.

## Causes

Muscles, ligaments, and other structures hold the uterus in the pelvis. If
these tissues are weak or stretched, the uterus drops into the vaginal canal.
This is called prolapse.

This condition is more common in women who have had 1 or more vaginal births.

Other things that can cause or lead to uterine prolapse include:

    * Normal aging
    * Lack of estrogen after menopause 
    * Conditions that put pressure on the pelvic muscles, such as chronic cough and obesity
    * Pelvic tumor (rare)

Repeated straining to have a bowel movement due to long-term constipation can
make the problem worse.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Pressure or heaviness in the pelvis or vagina
    * Problems with sexual intercourse
    * Leaking urine or sudden urge to empty the bladder
    * Low backache
    * Uterus and cervix that bulge into the vaginal opening
    * Repeated bladder infections
    * Vaginal bleeding
    * Increased vaginal discharge 

Symptoms may be worse when you stand or sit for a long time. Exercise or
lifting may also make symptoms worse.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a pelvic exam. You will be asked to bear
down as if you are trying to push out a baby. This shows how far your uterus
has dropped.

    * Uterine prolapse is mild when the cervix drops into the lower part of the vagina.
    * Uterine prolapse is moderate when the cervix drops out of the vaginal opening. 

Other things the pelvic exam may show are:

    * The bladder and front wall of the vagina are bulging into the vagina (cystocele).
    * The rectum and back wall of the vagina (rectocele) are bulging into the vagina.
    * The urethra and bladder are lower in the pelvis than usual. 

## Treatment

You do not need treatment unless you are bothered by the symptoms.

Many women will get treatment by the time the uterus drops to the opening of
the vagina.

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

The following can help you control your symptoms:

    * Lose weight if you are obese.
    * Avoid heavy lifting or straining.
    * Get treated for a chronic cough. If your cough is due to smoking, try to quit.

VAGINAL PESSARY

Your provider may recommend placing a rubber or plastic donut-shaped device,
into the vagina. This is called a pessary. This device holds the uterus in
place.

The pessary may be used for short-term or long-term. The device is fitted for
your vagina. Some pessaries are similar to a diaphragm used for birth control.

Pessaries must be cleaned regularly. Sometimes they need to be cleaned by the
provider. Many women can be taught how to insert, clean, and remove a pessary.

Side effects of pessaries include:

    * Foul smelling discharge from the vagina
    * Irritation of the lining of the vagina
    * Ulcers in the vagina
    * Problems with normal sexual intercourse 

SURGERY

Surgery should not be done until the prolapse symptoms are worse than the
risks of having surgery. The type of surgery will depend on:

    * The severity of the prolapse
    * The woman's plans for future pregnancies
    * The woman's age, health, and other medical problems
    * The woman's desire to retain vaginal function 

There are some surgical procedures that can be done without removing the
uterus, such as a sacrospinous fixation. This procedure involves using nearby
ligaments to support the uterus. Other procedures are also available.

Often, a vaginal hysterectomy can be done at the same time as the procedure to
correct uterine prolapse. Any sagging of the vaginal walls, urethra, bladder,
or rectum can be surgically corrected at the same time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women with mild uterine prolapse do not have symptoms that require
treatment.

Vaginal pessaries can be effective for many women with uterine prolapse.

Surgery often provides very good results. However, some women may need to have
the treatment again in the future.

## Possible Complications

Ulceration and infection of the cervix and vaginal walls may occur in severe
cases of uterine prolapse.

Urinary tract infections and other urinary symptoms may occur because of a
cystocele. Constipation and hemorrhoids may occur because of a rectocele.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of uterine prolapse.

## Prevention

Tightening the pelvic floor muscles using Kegel exercises helps to strengthen
the muscles and reduces the risk of developing uterine prolapse.

Estrogen therapy after menopause may help with vaginal muscle tone.

## Alternative Names

Pelvic relaxation - uterine prolapse; Pelvic floor hernia; Prolapsed uterus;
Incontinence - prolapse

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Anatomic defects of the abdominal wall and pelvic floor:
abdominal hernias, inguinal hernias, and pelvic organ prolapse: diagnosis and
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Magowan BA, Owen P, Thomson A. Pelvic organ prolapse. In: Magowan BA, Owen P,
Thomson A, eds. _Clinical Obstetrics and Gynaecology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Winters JC, Smith AL, Krlin RM. Vaginal and abdominal reconstructive surgery
for pelvic organ prolapse. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
83.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pelvic Support
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicSupportProblems_thumb.jpg)Pelvic
Floor Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

