Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chagasdisease.html    
                                Description: Chagas disease, also called American trypanosomiasis, is a disease caused by a parasite. It is mainly spread by kissing bugs, which are common in Latin America. It is important to get early treatment. Learn about the signs and symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chagas Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chagasdisease.html

#  Chagas Disease

Also called: American trypanosomiasis, South American trypanosomiasis

## Summary

### What is Chagas disease?

Chagas disease, or American trypanosomiasis, is an illness that can cause
serious heart and stomach problems. It is caused by a parasite. Chagas disease
is common in Latin America, especially in poor, rural areas. It can also be
found in the United States, most often in people who were infected before they
moved to the U.S.

### What causes Chagas disease?

Chagas disease is caused by the Trypanosoma cruzi parasite. It is usually
spread by infected blood-sucking bugs called triatomine bugs. They are also
known as "kissing bugs" because they often bite people's faces. When of these
bugs bites you, it leaves behind infected waste. You can become infected if
you rub the waste in your eyes or nose, the bite wound, or a cut.

Chagas disease can also spread through contaminated food, a blood transfusion,
a donated organ, or from mother to baby during pregnancy.

### Who is at risk for Chagas disease?

Kissing bugs can be found throughout the Americas, but they are more common in
certain areas. The people who are most at risk for Chagas disease

    * Live in rural areas of Latin America
    * Have seen the bugs, especially in those areas
    * Have stayed in a house with a thatched roof or with walls that have cracks or crevices

### What are the symptoms of Chagas disease?

In the beginning, there may be no symptoms. Some people do get mild symptoms,
such as

    * Fever
    * Fatigue
    * Body aches
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Diarrhea
    * Vomiting
    * A rash
    * A swollen eyelid

These early symptoms usually go away. However, if you don't treat the
infection, it stays in your body. Later, it can cause serious intestinal and
heart problems such as

    * An irregular heartbeat that can cause sudden death
    * An enlarged heart that doesn't pump blood well
    * Problems with digestion and bowel movements
    * An increased chance of having a stroke

### How is Chagas disease diagnosed?

A physical exam and blood tests can diagnose it. You may also need tests to
see whether the disease has affected your intestines and heart.

### What are the treatments for Chagas disease?

Medicines can kill the parasite, especially early on. You can also treat
related problems. For example, a pacemaker helps with some heart
complications.

### Can Chagas disease be prevented?

There are no vaccines or medicines to prevent Chagas disease. If you travel to
areas where it occurs, you are at higher risk if you sleep outdoors or are
staying in poor housing conditions. It is important to use insecticides to
prevent bites and practice food safety.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

    * American Trypanosomiasis (Also Known as Chagas Disease) Blood Screening FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * American Trypanosomiasis (Also Known as Chagas Disease) Detailed FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * American Trypanosomiasis (Also Known as Chagas Disease) Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * American Trypanosomiasis (Also Known as Chagas Disease) Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * American Trypanosomiasis (Also Known as Chagas Disease) Triatomine Bug FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Chagas Disease (American trypanosomiasis) (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish
    * Diagnosis of Parasitic Diseases (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Travelers' Health: Trypanosomiasis, American (Chagas Disease) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Chagas Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Driving forces for strengthening the surveillance of Chagas disease in the...
    * Article: Use of tissue doppler imaging for the early detection of myocardial...
    * Article: Autochthonous Chagas Disease - Missouri, 2018.
    * Chagas Disease -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Chagas disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chagas Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Chagas Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChagasDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chagas Disease is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 15 August 2019 Topic last reviewed: 18 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

