Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003982.htm    
                                Description: Anterior vaginal wall repair is a surgical procedure. This surgery tightens the front (anterior) wall of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anterior vaginal wall repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003982.htm

# Anterior vaginal wall repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anterior vaginal wall repair is a surgical procedure. This surgery tightens
the front (anterior) wall of the vagina.

## Description

The anterior vaginal wall can sink (prolapse) or bulge. This occurs when the
bladder or the urethra sink into the vagina.

The repair may be done while you are under:

    * General anesthesia: You will be asleep and unable to feel pain.
    * Spinal anesthesia: You will be awake, but you will be numb from the waist down and you will not feel pain. You will be given medicines to help you relax.

Your surgeon will:

    * Make a surgical cut through the front wall of your vagina.
    * Move your bladder back to its normal location.
    * May fold your vagina, or cut away part of it.
    * Put sutures (stitches) in the tissue between your vagina and bladder. These will hold the walls of your vagina in the correct position.
    * Place a patch between your bladder and vagina. This patch can be made of man-made material (synthetic skin) or commercially available biological material (such as pig or cow skin or cadaveric tissue).
    * Attach sutures to the walls of the vagina to the tissue on the side of your pelvis.

Sometimes, the surgeon will also make a surgical cut in your belly. This cut
may be up and down or across.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure is used to repair sinking or bulging of the vaginal wall.

Symptoms of anterior vaginal wall prolapse include:

    * You may not be able to empty your bladder completely.
    * Your bladder may feel full all the time.
    * You may feel pressure in your vagina.
    * You may be able to feel or see a bulging at the opening of the vagina.
    * You may have pain when you have sex.
    * You may leak urine when you cough, sneeze, or lift something.
    * You may get bladder infections. 

This surgery by itself does not treat stress incontinence. Stress incontinence
is the leaking of urine when you cough, sneeze, or lift. It may be performed
along with other surgeries.

Before doing this surgery, your health care provider may have you:

    * Learn pelvic floor muscle exercises (Kegel exercises)
    * Use estrogen cream in your vagina
    * Try a device called a pessary in your vagina to hold up the prolapse

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection

Risks for this procedure include:

    * Damage to the urethra, bladder, or vagina
    * Irritable bladder
    * Changes in the vagina (prolapsed vagina)
    * Urine leakage from the vagina or to the skin (fistula)
    * Worsening urinary incontinence
    * Lasting pain
    * Complications from the material used during surgery (mesh/grafts)

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider what drugs you are taking. Also tell the provider
about theÂ drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You very often will be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the surgery.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You may have a catheter to drain urine for 1 or 2 days after surgery.

You will be on a liquid diet right after surgery. When your normal bowel
function returns, you can return to your regular diet.

You should not insert anything in the vagina or have sex until your surgeon
says it is OK.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This surgery will very often repair the prolapse and the symptoms will go
away. This improvement will often last for years.

## Alternative Names

A/P repair; Vaginal wall repair; Colporrhaphy - repair of vaginal wall;
Cystocele repair - vaginal wall repair; Stress urinary incontinence - vaginal
wall repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Images

    * ![Anterior vaginal wall repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17012t.jpg)Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * ![Cystocele](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9064t.jpg)Cystocele
    * ![Anterior vaginal wall repair \(surgical treatment of urinary incontinence\) - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10193t.jpg)Anterior vaginal wall repair (surgical treatment of urinary incontinence) - series

## References

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Anatomic defects of the abdominal wall and pelvic floor:
abdominal hernias, inguinal hernias, and pelvic organ prolapse: diagnosis and
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Walters MD, Barber MD. Surgical treatment of anterior vaginal wall prolapse.
In: Walters MD, Karram MM, eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic
Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 23.

Winters JC, Smith AL, Krlin RM. Vaginal and abdominal reconstructive surgery
for pelvic organ prolapse. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
83.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pelvic Support
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicSupportProblems_thumb.jpg)Pelvic
Floor Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

