Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003609.htm    
                                Description: The osmolality urine test measures the concentration of particles in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osmolality urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003609.htm

# Osmolality urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The osmolality urine test measures the concentration of particles in urine.

Osmolality can also be measured using a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the health care provider may give you a special clean-
catch kit that contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow
instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you that you need to limit your fluid intake 12 to 14
hours before the test.

Your provider will ask you to temporarily stop taking any medicines that may
affect the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines
you take, including dextran and sucrose. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
before talking to your provider.

Other things can also affect the test results. Tell your provider if you
recently:

    * Had any type of anesthesia for an operation.
    * Received intravenous dye (contrast medium) for an imaging test such as a CT or MRI scan.
    * Used herbs or natural remedies, especially Chinese herbs.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test helps check your body's water balance and urine concentration.

Osmolality is a more exact measurement of urine concentration than the urine
specific gravity test.

## Normal Results

Normal values are as follows:

    * Random specimen: 50 to 1200 mOsm/kg (50 to 1200 mmol/kg)
    * 12 to 14 hour fluid restriction: Greater than 850 mOsm/kg (850 mmol/kg)

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results are indicated as follows:

Higher than normal measurements may indicate:

    * Adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones (Addison disease)
    * Heart failure
    * High sodium level in the blood
    * Loss of body fluids (dehydration)
    * Narrowing of the kidney artery (renal artery stenosis)
    * Shock
    * Sugar (glucose) in the urine
    * Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) 

Lower than normal measurements may indicate:

    * Damage to kidney tubule cells (renal tubular necrosis)
    * Diabetes insipidus
    * Drinking too much fluid
    * Kidney failure
    * Low sodium level in the blood
    * Severe kidney infection (pyelonephritis) 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Images

    * ![Osmolality test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10013t.jpg)Osmolality test
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Osmolality urine - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15424t.jpg)Osmolality urine - series

## References

Berl T, Sands JM. Disorders of water metabolism. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 8.

Oh MS, Briefel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

