Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003146.htm    
                                Description: Excessive amount of urination means that your body makes larger than normal amounts of urine each day.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urination - excessive amount

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003146.htm

# Urination - excessive amount

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Excessive amount of urination means that your body makes larger than normal
amounts of urine each day.

## Causes

An excessive volume of urination for an adult is more than 2.5 liters of urine
per day. However, this can vary depending on how much water you drink and what
your total body water is.Â This problem is different from needing to urinate
often.

Polyuria is a fairly common symptom. People often notice the problem when they
have to get up during the night to use the bathroom (nocturia).

Some common causes of the problems are:

    * Diabetes insipidus
    * Diabetes mellitus
    * Drinking excessive amounts of water

Less common causes include:

    * Kidney failure
    * Medicines such as diuretics and lithium
    * High or low calcium level in the body
    * Drinking alcohol and caffeine
    * Sickle cell anemia

Also, your urine production may increase for 24 hours after having tests that
involve injecting a special dye (contrast medium) into your vein during
imaging tests such as a CT scan or an MRI scan.

## Home Care

To monitor your urine output, keep a daily record of the following:

    * How much and what you drink
    * How often you urinate and how much urine you produce each time
    * How much you weigh (use the same scale every day)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have excessive urination over several
days, and it is not explained by medicines you take or drinking more fluids.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions such as:

    * When did the problem start and has it changed over time?
    * How often do you urinate during the daytime and overnight? Do you get up at night to urinate?
    * Do you have problems controlling your urine?
    * What makes the problem worse? Better?
    * Have you noticed any blood in your urine or change in urine color?
    * Do you have any other symptoms (such as pain, burning, fever, or abdominal pain)?
    * Do you have a history of diabetes, kidney disease, or urinary infections?
    * What medicines do you take? 
    * How much salt do you eat? Do you drink alcohol and caffeine?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood sugar (glucose) test
    * Blood urea nitrogen test
    * Creatinine (serum)
    * Electrolytes (serum)
    * Fluid deprivation test (limiting fluids to see if the urine volume decreases)
    * Osmolality blood test
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine osmolality test 
    * 24-hour urine test

## Alternative Names

Polyuria

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient: history, physical
examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

