Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003143.htm    
                                Description: Difficulty starting or maintaining a urine stream is called urinary hesitancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urination - difficulty with flow

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003143.htm

# Urination - difficulty with flow

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Difficulty starting or maintaining a urine stream is called urinary hesitancy.

## Considerations

Urinary hesitancy affects people of all ages and occurs in both sexes.
However, it is most common in older men with an enlarged prostate gland.

Urinary hesitancy most often develops slowly over time. You may not notice it
until you are unable to urinate (called urinary retention). This causes
swelling and discomfort in your bladder.

## Causes

The most common cause of urinary hesitancy in older men is an enlarged
prostate. Almost all older men have some trouble with dribbling, weak urine
stream, and starting urination.

Another common cause is infection of the prostate or urinary tract. Symptoms
of a possible infection include:

    * Burning or pain with urination
    * Frequent urination
    * Cloudy urine
    * Sense of urgency (strong, sudden urge to urinate)
    * Blood in the urine

The problem can also be caused by:

    * Some medicines (such as remedies for colds and allergies, tricyclic antidepressants, some drugs used for incontinence, and some vitamins and supplements)
    * Nervous system disorders or problems with the spinal cord
    * Side effects of surgery
    * Scar tissue (stricture) in the tube leading from the bladder
    * Spastic muscles in the pelvis

## Home Care

Steps you can take to care for yourself include:

    * Keep track of your urination patterns and bring the report to your health care provider.
    * Apply heat to your lower abdomen (below your belly button and above the pubic bone). This is where the bladder sits. The heat relaxes muscles and aids urination.
    * Massage or apply light pressure over your bladder to help the bladder empty. 
    * Take a warm bath or shower to help stimulate urination.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice urinary hesitancy, dribbling, or a weak urine
stream.

Call your provider right away if:

    * You have a fever, vomiting, side or back pain, shaking chills, or are passing little urine for 1 to 2 days.
    * You have blood in your urine, cloudy urine, a frequent or urgent need to urinate, or a discharge from the penis or vagina.
    * You are unable to pass urine.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take your medical history and do an exam to look at your
pelvis, genitals, rectum, abdomen, and lower back.

You may be asked questions such as:

    * How long have you had the problem and when did it start?
    * Is it worse in the morning or at night?
    * Has the force of your urine flow decreased? Do you have dribbling or leaking urine?
    * Does anything help or make the problem worse?
    * Do you have symptoms of an infection?
    * Have you had other medical conditions or surgeries that could affect your urine flow?
    * What medicines do you take? 

Tests that may be performed include:

    * Catheterization of the bladder to determine how much urine remains in your bladder after trying to urinate and to get urine for culture (a catheterized urine specimen)
    * Cystometrogram or urodynamic study
    * Transrectal ultrasound of the prostate
    * Urethral swab for culture
    * Urinalysis and culture
    * Voiding cystourethrogram
    * A bladder scan and ultrasound (measures urine left behind without catheterization)
    * Cystoscopy

Treatment for urinary hesitancy depends on the cause, and may include:

    * Medicines to relieve the symptoms of an enlarged prostate.
    * Antibiotics to treat any infection. Be sure to take all your medicines as directed.
    * Surgery to relieve a prostate blockage (TURP).
    * Procedure to dilate or cut scar tissue in the urethra.

## Alternative Names

Delayed urination; Hesitancy; Difficulty initiating urination

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient: history, physical
examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Smith PP, Kuchel GA. Aging of the urinary tract. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K,
Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

