Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003342.htm    
                                Description: Urine chemistry is a group of one or more tests done to check the chemical content of a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine chemistry

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003342.htm

# Urine chemistry

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine chemistry is a group of one or more tests done to check the chemical
content of a urine sample.

## How the Test is Performed

For this test, a clean catch (midstream) urine sample is needed.

Some tests require that you collect all of your urine for 24 hours.

Your health care provider will order certain tests, which will be done on the
urine sample in a lab.

## How to Prepare for the Test

For detailed information about how to prepare for the test, how the test will
feel, risks with the test, and normal and abnormal values, please see the test
your provider ordered:

    * 24-hour urinary aldosterone excretion rate
    * 24-hour urine protein
    * Acid loading test (pH)
    * Adrenalin - urine test
    * Amylase - urine
    * Bilirubin - urine
    * Calcium - urine
    * Citric acid urine test
    * Cortisol - urine
    * Creatinine - urine
    * Cytology exam of urine
    * Dopamine - urine test
    * Electrolytes - urine
    * Epinephrine - urine test
    * Glucose - urine
    * HCG (qualitative - urine)
    * Homovanillic acid (HVA)
    * Immunoelectrophoresis - urine
    * Immunofixation - urine
    * Ketones - urine
    * Leucine aminopeptidase - urine
    * Myoglobin - urine
    * Norepinephrine - urine test
    * Normetanephrine
    * Osmolality - urine
    * Porphyrins - urine
    * Potassium - urine
    * Protein electrophoresis - urine
    * Protein - urine
    * RBC - urine
    * Sodium - urine
    * Urea nitrogen - urine
    * Uric acid - urine
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine Bence-Jones protein
    * Urinary casts
    * Urine amino acids
    * Urine concentration test
    * Urine culture (catheterized specimen)
    * Urine culture (clean catch)
    * Urine dermatan sulfate
    * Urine - hemoglobin
    * Urine metanephrine
    * Urine pH
    * Urine specific gravity
    * Vanillylmandelic acid (VMA)

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to yourÂ doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## Alternative Names

Chemistry - urine

## Images

    * ![Urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10008t.jpg)Urine test

## References

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 114.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

