Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003325.htm    
                                Description: Uroflowmetry is a test that measures the volume of urine released from the body, the speed with which it is released, and how long the release takes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uroflowmetry

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003325.htm

# Uroflowmetry

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uroflowmetry is a test that measures the volume of urine released from the
body, the speed with which it is released, and how long the release takes.

## How the Test is Performed

You will urinate in a urinal or toilet fitted with a machine that has a
measuring device.

You will be asked to begin urinating after the machine has started. When you
finish, the machine will make a report for your health care provider.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may ask you to temporarily stop taking medicines that can affect
the test results.

Uroflowmetry is best done when you have a full bladder. DO NOT urinate for 2
hours before the test. Drink extra fluids so you will have plenty of urine for
the test. The test is the most accurate if you urinate at least 5 ounces (150
milliliters) or more.

DO NOT place any toilet tissue in the test machine.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves normal urination, so you should not experience any
discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is useful in evaluating the function of the urinary tract. In most
cases, a person having this test will report urination that is too slow.

## Normal Results

Normal values vary depending on age and sex. In men, urine flow declines with
age. Women have less change with age.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Results are compared with your symptoms and physical exam. A result that may
need treatment in one person may not need treatment in another person.

Several circular muscles around the urethra normally regulate urine flow. If
any of these muscles becomes weak or stops working, you may have an increase
in urine flow or urinary incontinence.

If there is a bladder outlet obstruction or if the bladder muscle is weak, you
may have a decrease in urine flow. The amount of urine that remains in your
bladder after urinating can be measured with ultrasound.

Your provider should explain and discuss any abnormal results with you.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Uroflow

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10010t.jpg)Urine sample

## References

McNicholas TA, Speakman MJ, Kirby RS. Evaluation and nonsurgical management of
benign prostatic hypoplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
104.

Nitti VW, Brucker BM. Urodynamic and video-urodynamic evaluation of the lower
urinary tract. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 73.

Pessoa R, Kim FJ. Urodynamics and voiding dysfunction. In: Harken AH, Moore
EE, eds. _Abernathy's Surgical Secrets_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 103.

Rosenman AE. Pelvic floor disorders: pelvic organ prolapse, urinary
incontinence, and pelvic floor pain syndromes. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC,
Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

