Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003141.htm    
                                Description: Normally, the amount of urine your body produces decreases at night. This allows most people to sleep 6 to 8 hours without having to urinate.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinating more at night

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003141.htm

# Urinating more at night

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Normally, the amount of urine your body produces decreases at night. This
allows most people to sleep 6 to 8 hours without having to urinate.

Some people wake up from sleep more often to urinate during the night. This
can disrupt sleep cycles.

## Causes

Drinking too much fluid during the evening can cause you to urinate more often
during the night. Caffeine and alcohol after dinner can also lead to this
problem.

Other common causes of urination at night include:

    * Infection of the bladder or urinary tract
    * Drinking a lot of alcohol, caffeine, or other fluids before bedtime
    * Enlarged prostate gland (BPH)
    * Pregnancy 

Other conditions that can lead to the problem include:

    * Chronic kidney failure
    * Diabetes
    * Drinking excessive amount of water
    * Heart failure
    * High blood calcium level
    * Certain medicines, including water pills (diuretics)
    * Diabetes insipidus
    * Swelling of the legs

Waking often during the night to urinate can also be linked to obstructive
sleep apnea and other sleeping disorders. Nocturia may go away when the
sleeping problem is under control. Stress and restlessness can also cause you
to wake up at night.

## Home Care

To monitor the problem:

    * Keep a diary of how much fluid you drink, how often you urinate, and how much you urinate. 
    * Record your body weight at the same times and on the same scale daily.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Waking to urinate more often continues over several days.
    * You are bothered by the number of times you must urinate during the night. 
    * You have a burning sensation when urinating.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions such as:

    * When did the problem start and has it changed over time?
    * How often do you urinate each night and how much urine do you release each time?
    * Do you ever have "accidents" or bedwetting?
    * What makes the problem worse or better?
    * How much fluid do you drink before bedtime? Have you tried limiting fluids before bedtime?
    * What other symptoms do you have? Do you have increased thirst, pain or burning on urination, fever, abdominal pain, or back pain?
    * What medicines are you taking? Have you changed your diet?
    * Do you drink caffeine and alcohol? If so, how much do you consume each day and when during the day?
    * Have you had any bladder infections in the past?
    * Do you have a family history of diabetes?
    * Does nighttime urination interfere with your sleep? 

Tests that may be performed include:

    * Blood sugar (glucose)
    * Blood urea nitrogen
    * Fluid deprivation
    * Osmolality, blood
    * Serum creatinine or creatinine clearance
    * Serum electrolytes
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine concentration
    * Urine culture
    * You may be asking to keep track of how much liquid you take in and how much you void at a time (voiding diary) 

Treatment depends on the cause. If excessive nighttime urination is due to
diuretic medicines, you may be told to take your medicine earlier in the day.

## Alternative Names

Nocturia

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Carter C. Urinary tract disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 40.

Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient: history, physical
examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

Lightner DJ, Gomelsky A, Souter L, Vasavada SP. Diagnosis and treatment of
overactive bladder (non-neurogenic) in adults: AUA/SUFU Guideline Amendment
2019. _J Urol_. 2019;202(3):558-563. PMID: 31039103
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31039103.

Samarinas M, Gravas S. The relationship between inflammation and LUTS/BPH. In:
Morgia G, ed. _Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia_.
Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2018:chap 3.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

