Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003147.htm    
                                Description: Decreased urine output means that you produce less urine than normal. Most adults make at least 500 mL of urine in 24 hours (a little over 2 cups).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine output - decreased

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003147.htm

# Urine output - decreased

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Decreased urine output means that you produce less urine than normal. Most
adults make at least 500 mL of urine in 24 hours (a little over 2 cups).

## Causes

Common causes include:

    * Dehydration from not drinking enough fluids and having vomiting, diarrhea, or fever
    * Total urinary tract blockage, such as from an enlarged prostate
    * Medicines such as anticholinergics and some antibiotics 

Less common causes include:

    * Blood loss
    * Severe infection or other medical condition that leads to shock

## Home Care

Drink the amount of fluid your health care provider recommends.

Your provider may tell you to measure the amount of urine you produce.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A large decrease in urine output may be a sign of a serious condition. In some
cases, it can be life threatening. Most of the time, urine output can be
restored with prompt medical care.

Contact your provider if:

    * You notice that you are producing less urine than usual.
    * Your urine looks much darker than usual.
    * You are vomiting, have diarrhea, or have a high fever and cannot get enough fluids by mouth.
    * You have dizziness, lightheadedness, or a fast pulse with decreased urine output. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions such as:

    * When did the problem start and has it changed over time?
    * How much do you drink each day and how much urine do you produce?
    * Have you noticed any change in urine color?
    * What makes the problem worse? Better?
    * Have you had vomiting, diarrhea, fever, or other symptoms of illness?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Do you have a history of kidney or bladder problems?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Blood tests for electrolytes, kidney function, and blood count
    * CT scan of the abdomen (done without contrast dye if your kidney function is impaired)
    * Renal scan
    * Urine tests, including tests for infection
    * Cystoscopy

## Alternative Names

Oliguria

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Emmett M, Fenves AV, Schwartz JC. Approach to the patient with kidney disease.
In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 112.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

