Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003417.htm    
                                Description: It is sometimes necessary to get a urine sample from a baby to do testing. Most of the time, urine is collected in the health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine collection - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003417.htm

# Urine collection - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is sometimes necessary to get a urine sample from a baby to do testing.
Most of the time, urine is collected in the health care provider's office. A
sample can also be collected at home.

## How the Test is Performed

To collect a urine sample from an infant:

Thoroughly wash the area around the urethra (the hole where urine flows out).
Use the soap, or cleansing wipes that your provider gave you.

You will be given a special bag to collect the urine. It will be a plastic bag
with a sticky strip on one end, made to fit over your baby's genital area.
Open this bag and place it on the infant.

    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the two folds of skin on either side of the vagina (labia).

Put a diaper on the baby (over the bag).

Check the infant often, and change the bag after the infant has urinated. (An
active infant can cause the bag to move, so it may take more thanÂ one try to
collect the sample.)

Empty the urine from the bag into the container provided by your provider. DO
NOT touch the inside of the cup or lid. If at home, place the container in a
plastic bag in the refrigerator until you return it to your provider.

When finished, label the container and return it as instructed.

Thoroughly wash the area around the urethra. Clean from the front to the back
on a female infant, and from the tip of the penis down on a male infant.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no preparation for the test. If you collect the urine at home, have
some extra collection bags available.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed to get a urine sample from an infant.

## Normal Results

Normal values depend on what tests will be performed on the urine after it is
collected.

## Risks

There are no major risks to the infant. Rarely, a mild skin rash from the
adhesive on the collection bag may develop.

## References

Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient; history, physical
examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Novick AC, Partin AW,
Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 1.

Harrison GJ. Approach to infections in the fetus and newborn. In: Cherry JD,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's
Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 66.

## Review Date 9/5/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

