Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007406.htm    
                                Description: Inguinal hernia repair is surgery to repair a hernia in your groin. A hernia is tissue that bulges out of a weak spot in the abdominal wall. Your intestine may bulge out through this weakened area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Inguinal hernia repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007406.htm

# Inguinal hernia repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Inguinal hernia repair is surgery to repair a hernia in your groin. A hernia
is tissue that bulges out of a weak spot in the abdominal wall. Your intestine
may bulge out through this weakened area.

## Description

During surgery to repair the hernia, the bulging tissue is pushed back in.
Your abdominal wall is strengthened and supported with sutures (stitches), and
sometimes mesh. This repair can be done with open or laparoscopic surgery. You
and your surgeon can discuss which type of surgery is right for you.

Your surgeon will decide which kind of anesthesia you will receive:

    * General anesthesia is medicine that keeps you asleep and pain-free.
    * Regional anesthesia, which numbs you from the waist to your feet.
    * Local anesthesia and medicine to relax you. 

In open surgery:

    * Your surgeon makes a cut near the hernia.
    * The hernia is located and separated from the tissues around it. The hernia sac is removed or the hernia is gently pushed back into your abdomen.
    * The surgeon then closes your weakened abdominal muscles with stitches.
    * Often a piece of mesh is also sewn into place to strengthen your abdominal wall. This repairs the weakness in the wall of your abdomen.
    * At the end of the repair, the cut is stitched closed. 

In laparoscopic surgery:

    * The surgeon makes three to five small cuts in your lower belly.
    * A medical device called a laparoscope is inserted through one of the cuts. The scope is a thin, lighted tube with a camera on the end. It lets the surgeon see inside your belly.
    * A harmless gas is pumped into your belly to expand the space. This gives the surgeon more room to see and work.
    * Other tools are inserted through the other cuts. The surgeon uses these tools to repair the hernia.
    * The same repair will be done as the repair in open surgery.
    * At the end of the repair, the scope and other tools are removed. The cuts are stitched closed. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your doctor may suggest hernia surgery if you have pain or your hernia bothers
you during your everyday activities. If the hernia is not causing you
problems, you may not need surgery. However, these hernias most often do not
go away on their own, and they may get larger.

Sometimes the intestine can be trapped inside the hernia. This is called an
incarcerated or strangulated hernia. It can cut off blood supply to the
intestines. This can be life threatening. If this happens, you would need
emergency surgery.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Damage to other blood vessels or organs
    * Damage to the nerves
    * Damage to the testicles if a blood vessel connected to them is harmed
    * Long-term pain in the cut area
    * Return of the hernia 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon or nurse if:

    * You are or could be pregnant
    * You are taking any medicines, including drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and others.
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of surgery. 

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

Most people are able to get out of bed an hour or so after this surgery. Most
can go home the same day, but some may need to stay in the hospital overnight.

Some men may have problems passing urine after hernia surgery. If you have
problems urinating, you may need a catheter. This is a thin flexible tube that
is inserted into your bladder for a short time to drain urine.

Following instructions about how active you can be while recovering. This may
include:

    * Returning to light activities soon after going home, but avoiding strenuous activities and heavy lifting for a few weeks.
    * Avoiding activities that can increase pressure in the groin and belly. Move slowly from a lying to a seated position. 
    * Avoiding sneezing or coughing forcefully.
    * Drinking plenty of fluids and eating lots of fiber to prevent constipation.

Follow any other self-care instructions to help speed your recovery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome of this surgery is usually very good. In some people, the hernia
returns.

## Alternative Names

Herniorrhaphy; Hernioplasty - inguinal

## Patient Instructions

    * Inguinal hernia repair - discharge

## References

Kuwada T, Stefanidis D. The management of inguinal hernia. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:623-628.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

