Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000992.htm    
                                Description: Gastroschisis is a birth defect in which an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastroschisis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000992.htm

# Gastroschisis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastroschisis is a birth defect in which an infant's intestinesÂ are outside
of the body because of a hole in the abdominal wall.

## Causes

Babies with gastroschisis are born withÂ a hole in the abdominal wall. The
child's intestines often stick out (protrude) through the hole.

The condition looks similar to an omphalocele. An omphalocele, however, is a
birth defect in which the infant's intestine or other abdominal organs
protrude through a hole in the belly button area and are covered with a
membrane. With gastroschisis, there is no covering membrane.

Abdominal wall defects develop as a baby grows inside the mother's womb.
During development, the intestine and other organs (liver, bladder, stomach,
and ovaries, or testes) develop outside the body at first and then usually
return inside. In babies with gastroschisis, the intestines (and sometimes the
stomach) remain outside the abdominal wall, without a membrane covering them.
The exact cause of abdominal wall defects is not known.

Mothers with the following may be at higher risk of having babies with
gastrochisis:

    * Younger age
    * Fewer resources
    * Poor nutrition during pregnancy
    * Use illegal substances

Babies with gastroschisis usually do not have other related birth defects.

## Symptoms

A gastroschisis can be seen when the baby is born. There is a hole in the
abdominal wall. The small intestine is often outside the abdomen near the
umbilical cord. Other organs that may also be seen are the large intestine,
stomach, or gallbladder.

If the intestine is damaged, the baby will have problems absorbing food.

## Exams and Tests

Prenatal ultrasounds often identify infants with gastroschisis before birth.
While pregnant, the mother may have shown signs of too much amniotic fluid
(polyhydramnios). A prenatal ultrasound often identifies the gastroschisis.

## Treatment

If gastroschisis is found before birth, the mother will need special
monitoring to make sure her unborn baby remains healthy.

Treatment for gastroschisis is surgery to repair the defect. The surgeon will
put the bowel back into the abdomen and close the defect, if possible. If the
abdominal cavity is too small, a mesh sack is stitched around the borders of
the defect and the edges of the defect are pulled up. The sack is called a
silo. Over 5 to 7 days, the intestineÂ returns into the abdominal cavity and
the defect can be closed.

Other treatments for the baby include nutrients by IV and antibiotics to
prevent infection. The baby's temperature must be carefully controlled,
because the exposed intestine allows a lot of body heat to escape.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The baby has a good chance of recovering if there are no other problems and if
the abdominal cavity is large enough. A very small abdominal cavity may result
in complications that require more surgeries.

Plans should be made for careful delivery and immediate management of the
problem after birth. The baby should be delivered in a medical center that is
skilled at repairing abdominal wall defects. Babies are likely to do better if
they do not need to be taken to another center for further treatment.

## Possible Complications

A small number of babies with gastroschisis (about 10%) may have parts of the
intestines that did not develop normally in the womb. With these babies, their
intestines may not work normally even after the organs are put back inside the
abdominal cavity.

The increased pressure from the misplaced abdominal contents can decrease
blood flow to the intestines and kidneys. It can also make it difficult for
the baby to expand the lungs, leading to breathing problems.

Another complication is bowel death necrosis. This occurs when intestinal
tissue dies due to low blood flow or infection.

This condition is apparent at birth and will be detected in the hospital at
delivery if it has not already been seen on routine fetal ultrasound exams
during pregnancy. If you have given birth at home and your baby appears to
have this defect, call the local emergency number (such as 911) right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This problem is diagnosed and repaired in the hospital at birth. After
returning home, call your health care provider if your baby develops any of
these symptoms:

    * Decreased bowel movements
    * Feeding problems
    * Fever
    * Green or yellowish green vomit
    * Swollen belly area
    * Vomiting (different than normal baby spit-up)
    * Worrisome behavioral changes

## Alternative Names

Birth defect - gastroschisis; Abdominal wall defect - infant; Abdominal wall
defect - neonate; Abdominal wall defect - newborn

## Images

    * ![Infant abdominal hernia \(gastroschisis\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9028t.jpg)Infant abdominal hernia (gastroschisis)
    * ![Gastroschisis repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7105t.jpg)Gastroschisis repair - series

## References

Gottlieb LJ, Reid RR, Slidell MB. Pediatric chest and trunk defects. In:
Rodriguez ED, Losee JE, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3:
Craniofacial, Head and Neck Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

Walther AE, Nathan JD. Newborn abdominal wall defects. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS,
Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

