Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002935.htm    
                                Description: Umbilical hernia repair is surgery to repair an umbilical hernia. An umbilical hernia is a sac (pouch) formed from the inner lining of your belly (abdominal cavity) that pushes through a hole in the abdominal    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Umbilical hernia repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002935.htm

# Umbilical hernia repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Umbilical hernia repair is surgery to repair an umbilical hernia. An umbilical
hernia is a sac (pouch) formed from the inner lining of your belly (abdominal
cavity) that pushes through a hole in the abdominal wall at the belly button.

## Description

You will probably receive general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) for this
surgery. If your hernia is small, you may receive spinal, epidural block, or
local anesthesia and medicine to relax you. You will be awake but pain-free.

Your surgeon will make a surgical cut under your belly button.

    * Your surgeon will find your hernia and separate it from the tissues around it. Then your surgeon will gently push the contents of the intestine back into the abdomen.
    * Strong stitches will be used to repair the hole or weak spot caused by the umbilical hernia.
    * Your surgeon may also lay a piece of mesh over the weak area (usually not in children) to make it stronger.

Umbilical hernia can also be repaired using a laparoscope. This is a thin,
lighted tube that lets the doctor see inside your belly. The scope will be
inserted through one of several small cuts. The instruments will be inserted
through the other cuts.

If your child is having this surgery, the surgeon will discuss the type of
anesthesia your child will receive. The surgeon will also describe how the
surgery will be done.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

CHILDREN

Umbilical hernias are fairly common in children. A hernia at birth pushes the
belly button out. It shows more when a baby cries because the pressure from
crying makes the hernia bulge out more.

In infants, the problem is not usually treated with surgery. Most of the time,
the umbilical hernia shrinks and closes on its own by the time a child is 3 or
4 years old.

Umbilical hernia repair may be needed in children for these reasons:

    * The hernia is painful and stuck in the bulging position.
    * Blood supply to the intestine is affected.
    * The hernia has not closed by age 3 or 4.
    * The defect is very large or unacceptable to parents because of how it makes their child look. Even in these cases, the doctor will probably suggest waiting until your child is 3 or 4 to see if the hernia closes on its own. 

ADULTS

Umbilical hernias are also fairly common in adults. They are seen more in
overweight people and in women, especially after pregnancy. They tend to get
bigger over time.

Smaller hernias with no symptoms sometimes can be watched. Surgery may pose
greater risks for people with serious medical problems.

Without surgery, there is a risk that some fat or part of the intestine will
get stuck (incarcerated) in the hernia and become impossible to push back in.
This is usually painful. If the blood supply to this area is cut off
(strangulation), urgent surgery is needed. You may experience nausea or
vomiting, and the bulging area may turn blue or a darker color.

To avoid this problem, surgeons often recommend repairing the umbilical hernia
in adults. Surgery is also used for hernias that are getting larger or are
painful. Surgery secures the weakened abdominal wall tissue (fascia) and
closes any holes.

Get medical care right away if you have a painful hernia, or a hernia that
does not get smaller when you are lying down or that you cannot push back in.

## Risks

The risks of surgery for umbilical hernia are usually very low, unless the
person also has other serious medical problems.

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines or breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection

Risks of umbilical hernia surgery include any of the following:

    * Injury to the small or large intestine (rare)
    * Hernia comes back (small risk)

## Before the Procedure

Your surgeon or anesthesia doctor (anesthesiologist) will see you and give you
instructions for you or your child.

The anesthesiologist will discuss your (or your child's) medical history to
determine the right amount and type of anesthesia to use. You or your child
may be asked to stop eating and drinking 6 hours before surgery. Make sure you
tell your health care provider about any medicines, allergies, or history of
bleeding problems.

Several days before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking:

    * Aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, Motrin, Advil, or Aleve
    * Other blood-thinning medicines
    * Certain vitamins and supplements

## After the Procedure

Most umbilical hernia repairs are done on an outpatient basis. This means you
will likely go home on the same day. Some repairs may require a short hospital
stay if the hernia is very large.

After surgery, your provider will monitor your vital signs (pulse, blood
pressure, and breathing). You will stay in the recovery area until you are
stable. Your provider will prescribe pain medicine if you need it.

Follow instructions on how to care for your or your child's incision at home.
Your provider will tell you when you or your child resume your normal
activities. For adults, this will be in 2 to 4 weeks. Children can likely
return to most activities right away.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is always a chance that the hernia can come back. For healthy people,
the risk of it coming back is very low.

## Alternative Names

Umbilical hernia surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bringing your child to visit a very ill sibling
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Umbilical hernia repair - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10324t.jpg)Umbilical hernia repair - series

## References

Blair LJ, Kercher KW. Umbilical hernia repair. In: Rosen MJ, ed. _Atlas of
Abdominal Wall Reconstruction_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
20.

Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N. The umbilicus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JF, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 105.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 1/15/2019

Updated by: Robert A. Cowles, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery (Pediatrics),
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

