Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000987.htm    
                                Description: An umbilical hernia is an outward bulging (protrusion) of the lining of the abdomen or part of the abdominal organ(s) through the area around the belly button.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Umbilical hernia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000987.htm

# Umbilical hernia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An umbilical hernia is an outward bulging (protrusion) of the lining of the
abdomen or part of the abdominal organ(s) through the area around the belly
button.

## Causes

An umbilical hernia in an infant occurs when the muscle through which the
umbilical cord passes does not close completely after birth.

Umbilical hernias are common in infants. They occur slightly more often in
African Americans. Most umbilical hernias are not related to disease. Some
umbilical hernias are linked with rare conditions such as Down syndrome.

## Symptoms

A hernia can vary in width from less than 1 centimeter (cm) to more than 5 cm.

There is a soft swelling over the belly button that often bulges when the baby
sits up, cries, or strains. The bulge may be flat when the infant lies on the
back and is quiet. Umbilical hernias are usually painless.

## Exams and Tests

A hernia is usually found by the health care provider during a physical exam.

## Treatment

Most hernias in children heal on their own. Surgery to repair the hernia is
needed only in the following cases:

    * The hernia does not heal after the child is 3 or 4 years old.
    * The intestine or other tissue bulges out and loses its blood supply (becomes strangulated). This is an emergency that needs surgery right away. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most umbilical hernias get better without treatment by the time the child is 3
to 4 years old. If surgery is needed, it is usually successful.

## Possible Complications

Strangulation of intestine tissue is rare, but serious, and needs surgery
right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if the infant is very fussy or
seems to have bad abdominal pain or if the hernia becomes tender, swollen, or
discolored.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent an umbilical hernia. Taping or strapping an
umbilical hernia will not make it go away.

## Images

    * ![Umbilical hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9006t.jpg)Umbilical hernia

## References

Nathan AT. The umbilicus. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 125.

Sujka JA, Holcomb GW. Umbilical and other abdominal wall hernias. In: Holcomb
GW, Murphy JP, St. Peter SD, eds. _Holcomb and Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 49.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

