Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001136.htm    
                                Description: A hernia occurs when the contents of the abdomen push through a weak point or tear in the muscle wall of the belly. This layer of muscle holds the abdominal organs in place.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Femoral hernia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001136.htm

# Femoral hernia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hernia occurs when the contents of the abdomen push through a weak point or
tear in the muscle wall of the belly. This layer of muscle holds the abdominal
organs in place.

A femoral hernia is a bulge in the upper part of the thigh near the groin.

## Causes

Most of the time, there is no clear cause of a hernia. Some hernias may be
present at birth (congenital), but are not noticed until later in life.

Some factors that contribute to the development of a hernia include:

    * Chronic constipation
    * Chronic cough
    * Heavy lifting
    * Obesity
    * Straining to urinate because of an enlarged prostate

Femoral hernias tend to occur more often in women than in men.

## Symptoms

You may see a bulge in the upper thigh, just below the groin.

Most femoral hernias cause no symptoms. You may have some groin discomfort. It
may be worse when you stand, lift heavy objects, or strain.

Sometimes, the first symptoms are:

    * Sudden groin pain
    * Abdominal pain
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting

This may mean that the intestine within the hernia is blocked. This is an
emergency.

## Exams and Tests

The best way to tell if there is a hernia is to have your health care provider
perform a physical exam.

If there is any doubt about the exam findings, an ultrasound or CT scan may be
helpful.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the symptoms present with the hernia.

If you feel sudden pain in your groin, a piece of intestine may be stuck in
the hernia. This is called an incarcerated hernia. This problem needs
treatment right away in an emergency room. You may need emergency surgery.

When you have ongoing discomfort from a femoral hernia, talk to your provider
about your treatment choices.

Hernias often get larger as time passes. They do not go away on their own.

Compared to other types of hernias, femoral hernias more commonly have small
intestine get stuck in the weak area.

Your surgeon may recommend femoral hernia repair surgery. The surgery is done
to avoid a possible medical emergency.

If you do not have surgery right away:

    * Increase your fiber intake and drink fluids to avoid constipation.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * See your provider if you have trouble urinating (men).
    * Use proper lifting techniques. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The chances of a femoral hernia coming back after surgery are low.

If the intestine or other tissue becomes stuck, a portion of the intestine may
need to be removed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room right away if:

    * You suddenly develop pain in the hernia, and the hernia cannot be pushed back into the abdomen using gentle pressure.
    * You develop nausea, vomiting, or abdominal pain.
    * Your hernia becomes red, purple, dark, or discolored. 

Call your provider if you have a bulge in the upper thigh next to the groin.

## Prevention

It is difficult to prevent hernia. Making changes in your lifestyle can help.

## Alternative Names

Groin hernia

## Images

    * ![Inguinal hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17075t.jpg)Inguinal hernia
    * ![Femoral hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18025t.jpg)Femoral hernia

## References

Blatnik JA, Rosen MJ. Femoral hernia repair. In: Delaney CP, Goldstone J,
Hardacre JM, et al, eds. _Netter's Surgical Anatomy and Approaches_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 30.

Dunbar KB, Jeyarajah DR. Abdominal hernias and gastric volvulus. In: Feldman
M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal
and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
26.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

Reynolds JC, Ward PJ, Rose S, Solomon M. Small bowel. In: Reynolds JC, Ward
PJ, Rose S, Solomon M, eds. _Netter Collection of Medical Illustrations:
Digestive System: Part II - Lower Digestive Tract, The_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:31-114.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

