Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007399.htm    
                                Description: Femoral hernia repair is surgery to repair a hernia near the groin or upper thigh. A femoral hernia is tissue that bulges out of a weak spot in the groin. Usually this tissue is part of the intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Femoral hernia repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007399.htm

# Femoral hernia repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Femoral hernia repair is surgery to repair a hernia near the groin or upper
thigh. A femoral hernia is tissue that bulges out of a weak spot in the groin.
Usually this tissue is part of the intestine.

## Description

During surgery to repair the hernia, the bulging tissue is pushed back in. The
weakened area is sewn closed or strengthened. This repair can be done with
open or laparoscopic surgery. You and your surgeon can discuss which type of
surgery is right for you.

In open surgery:

    * You may receive general anesthesia. This is medicine that keeps you asleep and pain-free. Or, you may receive regional anesthesia, which numbs you from the waist to your feet. Or, your surgeon may choose to give you local anesthesia and medicine to relax you. 
    * Your surgeon makes a cut (incision) in your groin area.
    * The hernia is located and separated from the tissues around it. Some of the extra hernia tissue may be removed. The rest of the hernia contents are gently pushed back inside your abdomen.
    * The surgeon then closes your weakened abdominal muscles with stitches.
    * Often a piece of mesh is also sewn into place to strengthen your abdominal wall. This repairs the weakness in the wall.
    * At the end of the repair, the cuts are stitched closed. 

In laparoscopic surgery:

    * The surgeon makes 3 to 5 small cuts in your groin and lower belly. 
    * A medical device called a laparoscope is inserted through one of the cuts. The scope is a thin, lighted tube with a camera on the end. It lets the surgeon see inside your belly.
    * Other tools are inserted through the other cuts. The surgeon uses these tools to repair the hernia.
    * The same repair will be done as in open surgery.
    * At the end of the repair, the scope and other tools are removed. The cuts are stitched closed.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A femoral hernia needs to be repaired, even if it does not cause symptoms. If
the hernia is not repaired, the intestine can get trapped inside the hernia.
This is called an incarcerated, or strangulated, hernia. It can cut off blood
supply to the intestines. This can be life threatening. If this happens, you
would need emergency surgery.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Damage to blood vessels that go to the leg
    * Damage to the nearby nerve
    * Damage near the reproductive organs, for women
    * Long-term pain
    * Return of the hernia 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon or nurse if:

    * You are or could be pregnant
    * You are taking any medicines, including drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and others.
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of surgery.

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

Most people can go home on the same day as the surgery. Some need to stay in
the hospital overnight. If your surgery was done as an emergency, you may need
to stay in the hospital a few days longer.

After surgery, you may have some swelling, bruising, or soreness around the
incisions. Taking pain medicines and moving carefully can help.

Follow instructions about how active you can be while recovering. This may
include:

    * Returning to light activities soon after going home, but avoiding strenuous activities and heavy lifting for a few weeks.
    * Avoiding activities that can increase pressure in the groin area. Move slowly from a lying to a seated position.
    * Avoiding sneezing or coughing forcefully.
    * Drinking plenty of fluids and eating lots of fiber to prevent constipation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome of this surgery is often very good. In some people, the hernia
returns.

## Alternative Names

Femorocele repair; Herniorrhaphy; Hernioplasty - femoral

## References

Dunbar KB, Jeyarajah DR. Abdominal hernias and gastric volvulus. In: Feldman
M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal
and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

