Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000960.htm    
                                Description: A hernia is a sac formed by the lining of the abdominal cavity (peritoneum). The sac comes through a hole or weak area in the strong layer of the belly wall that surrounds the muscle. This layer is called    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hernia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000960.htm

# Hernia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hernia is a sac formed by the lining of the abdominal cavity (peritoneum).
The sac comes through a hole or weak area in the strong layer of the belly
wall that surrounds the muscle. This layer is called the fascia.

Which type of hernia you have depends on where it is:

    * Femoral hernia is a bulge in the upper thigh, just below the groin. This type is more common in women than men.
    * Hiatal hernia occurs in the upper part of the stomach. Part of the upper stomach pushes into the chest.
    * Incisional hernia can occur through a scar if you have had abdominal surgery in the past.
    * Umbilical hernia is a bulge around the belly button. It occurs when the muscle around the belly button does not close completely after birth.
    * Inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin. It is more common in men. It may go all the way down into the scrotum. 
![Inguinal hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17075.jpg)

## Causes

Usually, there is no clear cause of a hernia. Sometimes, hernias can occur due
to:

    * Heavy lifting
    * Straining while using the toilet
    * Any activity that raises the pressure inside the belly

Hernias may be present at birth, but the bulge may not be evident until later
in life. Some people have a family history of hernias.

Babies and children can get hernias. It happens when there is weakness in the
belly wall. Inguinal hernias are common in boys. Some children do not have
symptoms until they are adults.

Any activity or medical problem that increases pressure on the tissue in the
belly wall and muscles may lead to a hernia, including:

    * Long-term (chronic) constipation and pushing hard (straining) to have a bowel movement
    * Chronic coughing or sneezing
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Enlarged prostate, straining to urinate
    * Extra weight
    * Fluid in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Peritoneal dialysis
    * Poor nutrition
    * Smoking
    * Overexertion
    * Undescended testicles

## Symptoms

There are usually no symptoms. Some people have discomfort or pain. The
discomfort may be worse when standing, straining, or lifting heavy objects. In
time, the most common complaint is a bump that is sore and growing.

When a hernia gets bigger, it may get stuck inside the hole and lose its blood
supply. This is called strangulation. This causes pain and swelling at the
site of strangulation. Symptoms may include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Not being able to pass gas or have bowel movements

When this occurs, surgery is needed right away.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually see or feel a hernia when you are
examined. You may be asked to cough, bend, push, or lift. The hernia may get
bigger when you do this.

The hernia (bulge) may not be easily seen in infants and children, except when
the child is crying or coughing.

Ultrasound or CT scan may be done to look for a hernia.

If there is a blockage in the bowel, an x-ray of the abdomen will likely be
done.

## Treatment

Surgery is the only treatment that can permanently fix a hernia. Surgery may
be more risky for people with serious medical problems.

Surgery repairs the weakened abdominal wall tissue (fascia) and closes any
holes. Most hernias are closed with stitches and sometimes with mesh patches
to plug the hole.

An umbilical hernia that does not heal on its own by the time a child is 5
years old will likely be repaired.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome for most hernias is usually good with treatment. It is rare for a
hernia to come back. Incisional hernias are more likely to return.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, inguinal hernia repair can damage structures involved in the
function of a man's testicles.

Another risk of hernia surgery is nerve damage, which can lead to numbness in
the groin area.

If a part of the bowel was trapped or strangulated before surgery, bowel
perforation or dead bowel may result.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * A painful hernia and the contents cannot be pushed back into the abdomen using gentle pressure
    * Nausea, vomiting, or a fever along with a painful hernia
    * A hernia that becomes red, purple, dark, or discolored

Call your provider if you have:

    * Groin pain, swelling, or a bulge.
    * A bulge or swelling in the groin or belly button, or that is associated with a previous surgical cut.

## Prevention

To prevent a hernia:

    * Use proper lifting techniques.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Relieve or avoid constipation by eating plenty of fiber, drinking lots of fluid, going to the bathroom as soon as you have the urge, and exercising regularly.
    * Men should see their provider if they strain with urination. This may be a symptom of an enlarged prostate. 

## Alternative Names

Hernia - inguinal; Inguinal hernia; Direct and indirect hernia; Rupture;
Strangulation; Incarceration

## Patient Instructions

    * Inguinal hernia repair - discharge

## Images

    * ![Inguinal hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17075t.jpg)Inguinal hernia
    * ![Inguinal hernia repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7121t.jpg)Inguinal hernia repair - series

## References

Aiken JJ, Oldham KT. Inguinal hernias. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 346.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

