Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003277.htm    
                                Description: A lump in the abdomen is a small area of swelling or bulge of tissue in the belly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lump in the abdomen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003277.htm

# Lump in the abdomen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lump in the abdomen is a small area of swelling or bulge of tissue in the
belly.

## Causes

Most often, a lump in the abdomen is caused by a hernia. An abdominal hernia
occurs when there is a weak spot in the abdominal wall. This allows the
internal organs to bulge through the muscles of the abdomen. A hernia may
appear after you strain, or lift something heavy, or after a long period of
coughing.

There are several types of hernias, based on where they occur:

    * Inguinal hernia appears as a bulge in the groin or scrotum. This type is more common in men than women.
    * Incisional hernia can occur through a scar if you have had abdominal surgery.
    * Umbilical hernia appears as a bulge around the belly button. It occurs when the muscle around the navel does not close completely. 

Other causes of a lump in the abdominal wall include:

    * Hematoma (collection of blood under the skin after injury)
    * Lipoma (collection of fatty tissue under the skin)
    * Lymph nodes
    * Tumor of the skin or muscles 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have a lump in your abdomen, especially
if it becomes larger, changes color, or is painful.

If you have a hernia, call your provider if:

    * Your hernia changes in appearance.
    * Your hernia is causing more pain.
    * You have stopped passing gas or feel bloated.
    * You have a fever.
    * There is pain or tenderness around the hernia.
    * You have vomiting or nausea. 

The blood supply may be cut off to the organs that stick out through the
hernia. This is called a strangulated hernia. This condition is very rare, but
it is a medical emergency when it occurs.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and ask questions about your medical history and
symptoms, such as:

    * Where is the lump located?
    * When did you first notice the lump in your abdomen?
    * Is it always there, or does it come and go?
    * Does anything make the lump bigger or smaller?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

During the physical exam, you may be asked to cough or strain.

Surgery may be needed to correct hernias that do not go away or cause
symptoms. The surgery may be done through a large surgical cut, or through a
smaller cut into which the surgeon inserts a camera and other instruments.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal hernia; Hernia - abdominal; Abdominal wall defects; Lump in the
abdominal wall; Abdominal wall mass

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Abdomen. In: Ball JW,
Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to Physical
Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 18.

Turnage RH, Mizell J, Badgwell B. Abdominal wall, umbilicus, peritoneum,
mesenteries, omentum, and retroperitoneum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

## Review Date 6/15/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

