Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007661.htm    
                                Description: Ventral hernia repair is surgery to repair a ventral hernia. A ventral hernia is a sac (pouch) formed from the inner lining of your belly (abdomen) that pushes through a hole in the abdominal wall.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventral hernia repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007661.htm

# Ventral hernia repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ventral hernia repair is surgery to repair a ventral hernia. A ventral hernia
is a sac (pouch) formed from the inner lining of your belly (abdomen) that
pushes through a hole in the abdominal wall.

Ventral hernias often occur at the site of an old surgical cut (incision).
This type of ventral hernia is also called incisional hernia.

## Description

You will probably receive general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) for this
surgery. If your hernia is small, you may receive a spinal or epidural block
and medicine to relax you. You will be awake, but pain-free.

    * Your surgeon will make a surgical cut in your abdomen.
    * Your surgeon will find the hernia and separate it from the tissues around it. Then your surgeon will gently push the contents of the intestine back into the abdomen. The surgeon will only cut the intestines if they have been damaged.
    * Strong stitches will be used to repair the hole or weak spot caused by the hernia.
    * Your surgeon may also lay a piece of mesh over the weak area to make it stronger. Mesh helps prevent the hernia coming back.

Your surgeon may use a laparoscope to repair the hernia. This is a thin,
lighted tube with a camera that lets the surgeon see inside your belly. The
surgeon inserts the laparoscope through a small cut in your belly and inserts
the instruments through other small cuts. This type of procedure often heals
faster, andÂ with less pain and scarring. Not all hernias can be repaired with
laparoscopic surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Ventral hernias are fairly common in adults. They tend to get bigger over time
and there may be more than one in number.

Risk factors include:

    * A large abdominal incision
    * Being overweight
    * Diabetes
    * Straining when using the bathroom
    * Coughing a lot
    * Heavy lifting
    * Pregnancy

Sometimes, smaller hernias with no symptoms can be watched. Surgery may pose
greater risks for people with serious medical problems.

Without surgery, there is a risk that some fat or part of the intestine will
get stuck (incarcerated) in the hernia and become impossible to push back in.
This is usually painful. The blood supply to this area may become cut off
(strangulation). You may experience nausea or vomiting, and the bulging area
may turn blue or a darker color due to loss of blood supply. This is a medical
emergency and urgent surgery is needed.

To avoid this problem, surgeons often recommend repairing the ventral hernia.

Get medical care right away if you have a hernia that does not get smaller
when you are lying down or that you cannot push back in.

## Risks

The risks of ventral hernia repair are usually very low, unless the patient
also has other serious medical problems.

Risks for any anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems, such as pneumonia
    * Heart problems
    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots
    * Infection

A specific risk of ventral hernia surgery is injury to the bowel (small or
large intestine). This is rare.

## Before the Procedure

Your doctor will see you and give you instructions.

An anesthesiologist will discuss your medical history to determine the right
amount and type of anesthesia to use. You may be asked to stop eating and
drinking 6 to 8 hours before surgery. Make sure you tell your doctor or nurse
about any medicines, allergies, or history of bleeding problems.

Several days before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking:

    * Aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, Motrin, Advil, or Aleve
    * Other blood-thinning medicines
    * Certain vitamins and supplements

## After the Procedure

Most ventral hernia repairs are done on an outpatient basis. This means that
you will likely go home on the same day. If the hernia is very large, you may
need to stay in the hospital for a couple of days.

After surgery, your doctor and nurse will monitor your vital signs (pulse,
blood pressure, and breathing). You will stay in the recovery area until you
are stable. Your doctor will prescribe pain medicine if you need it.

Your doctor or nurse may advise you to drink plenty of fluids along with a
fiber-rich diet. This will help prevent straining during bowel movements.

Ease back into activity. Get up and walk around several times a day to help
prevent blood clots.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Following surgery, there is a low risk that the hernia may come back. However,
to reduce the risk of getting another hernia, you need to maintain a healthy
lifestyle, such as maintaining a healthy weight.

## References

Blatnik JA, Rosen MJ. Ventral herniation in adults. In: Yeo CJ, ed.
_Shackelford's Surgery of the Alimentary Tract_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 48.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

Webb DL, Stoikes NF, Voeller GR. Open ventral hernia repair with onlay mesh.
In: Rosen MJ, ed. _Atlas of Abdominal Wall Reconstruction_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

## Review Date 9/9/2017

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

