Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000274.htm    
                                Description: You or your child had surgery to repair an inguinal hernia caused by a weakness in the abdominal wall in your groin area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Inguinal hernia repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000274.htm

# Inguinal hernia repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You or your child had surgery to repair an inguinal hernia caused by a
weakness in the abdominal wall in your groin area.

Now that you or your child is going home, follow the surgeon's instructions on
self-care at home.

## When You're in the Hospital

During surgery, you or your child had anesthesia. This may have been general
(asleep and pain-free) or spinal or epidural (numb from the waist down)
anesthesia. If the hernia was small, it may have been repaired under local
anesthesia (awake but pain-free).

The nurse will give you or your child pain medicine and help you or your child
begin to move around. Rest and gentle movement are important for recovery.

You or your child may go home the same day as surgery. Or the hospital stay
may be 1 to 2 days. It will depend on the procedure that was done.

## What to Expect at Home

After hernia repair:

    * If there are stitches on the skin, they will need to be removed at a follow-up visit with the surgeon. If stitches under the skin were used, they will dissolve on their own.
    * The incision is covered with a bandage. Or, it is covered with a liquid adhesive (skin glue).
    * You or your child may have pain, soreness, and stiffness at first, especially when moving about. This is normal.
    * You or your child will also feel tired after surgery. This can last for a few weeks.
    * You or your child will most likely return to normal activities in just a few weeks.
    * Men may have swelling and pain in their testicles.
    * There may be some bruising around the groin and testicular area.
    * You or your child may have trouble passing urine for the first few days. 

Make sure you or your child gets plenty of rest the first 2 to 3 days after
going home. Ask family and friends for help with daily activities while your
movements are limited.

## Managing Pain

Use any pain medicines as instructed by the surgeon or nurse. You may be given
a prescription for a narcotic pain medicine. Over-the-counter pain medicine
(ibuprofen, acetaminophen) can be used if the narcotic medicine is too strong.

Apply a cold compress to the incision area for 15 to 20 minutes at a time for
the first few days. This will help the pain and swelling. Wrap the compress or
ice in a towel. This helps prevent cold injury to the skin.

## Wound Care

There may be a bandage over the incision. Follow the surgeon's instructions
for how long to leave it on and when to change it. If skin glue was used, a
bandage may not have been used.

    * A little bleeding and drainage is normal for the first few days. Apply antibiotic ointment (bacitracin, polysporin) or another solution to the incision area if the surgeon or nurse told you to.
    * Wash the area with mild soap and water when the surgeon says it is OK to do so. Gently pat it dry. DO NOT take a bath, soak in a hot tub, or go swimming for the first week after surgery. 

## Diet During Recovery

Pain medicines can cause constipation. Eating some high-fiber foods and
drinking plenty of water can help keep the bowels moving. Use over the counter
fiber products if constipation does not improve.

Antibiotics can cause diarrhea. If this happens, try eating yogurt with live
cultures or taking psyllium (Metamucil). Call the surgeon if the diarrhea does
not get better.

## Activity for Adults

Give yourself time to heal. You may gradually resume normal activities, such
as walking, driving, and sexual activity, when you are ready. But you probably
will not feel like doing anything strenuous for a few weeks.

DO NOT drive if you are taking narcotic pain medicines.

DO NOT lift anything over 10 pounds or 4.5 kilograms (about a gallon or a 4
liter jug of milk) for 4 to 6 weeks, or until your doctor tells you it is OK.
If possible avoid doing any activity that causes pain, or pulls on the area of
surgery. Older boys and men may want to wear an athletic supporter if they
have swelling or pain in the testicles.

Check with the surgeon before returning to sports or other high-impact
activities. Protect the incision area from the sun for 1 year to prevent
noticeable scarring.

## Activity for Children

Toddlers and older children will often stop any activity if they get tired. Do
not press them to do more if they seem tired.

The surgeon or nurse will tell you when it is OK for your child to return to
school or daycare. This may be as soon as 2 to 3 weeks after surgery.

Ask the surgeon or nurse if there are certain activities or sports your child
should not do, and for how long.

## Follow-up

Schedule a follow-up appointment with the surgeon as directed. Usually this
visit is about 2 weeks after surgery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the surgeon if you or your child has any of the following:

    * Severe pain or soreness
    * A lot of bleeding from your incision
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Light headedness that does not go away after a few days
    * Chills, or fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
    * Warmth, or redness at the incision site
    * Trouble urinating
    * Swelling or pain in the testicles that is getting worse 

## Alternative Names

Hernioraphy - discharge; Hernioplasty - discharge

## References

Kuwada T, Stefanidis D. The management of inguinal hernia. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:623-628.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Read More

    * Hernia
    * Inguinal hernia repair

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hernia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

