Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001271.htm    
                                Description: Urethral stricture is an abnormal narrowing of the urethra. Urethra is the tube that carries urine out of the body from the bladder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urethral stricture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001271.htm

# Urethral stricture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urethral stricture is an abnormal narrowing of the urethra. Urethra is the
tube that carries urine out of the body from the bladder.

## Causes

Urethral stricture may be caused by swelling or scar tissue from surgery. It
can also occur after an infection or injury. Rarely, it may be caused by
pressure from a growing tumor near the urethra.

Other factors that increase the risk for this condition include:

    * Sexually transmitted infection (STI)
    * Procedures that place a tube into the urethra (such as a catheter or cystoscope)
    * Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)
    * Injury to the pelvic area
    * Repeated urethritis

Strictures that are present at birth (congenital) are rare. The condition is
also rare in women.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Blood in the semen
    * Discharge from the urethra
    * Bloody or dark urine
    * Strong urge to urinate and frequent urination
    * Inability to empty bladderÂ (urinary retention)
    * Painful urination or difficulty urinating
    * Loss of bladder control
    * Increased frequency or urgency to urinate
    * Pain in the lower abdomen and pelvic area
    * Slow urine stream (may develop suddenly or gradually) or spraying of urine
    * Swelling of the penis

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show the following:

    * Decreased urinary stream
    * Discharge from the urethra
    * Enlarged bladder
    * Enlarged or tender lymph nodes in the groin
    * Enlarged or tender prostate
    * Hardness on the under surface of the penis
    * Redness or swelling of the penis

Sometimes, the exam reveals no abnormalities.

Tests include the following:

    * Cystoscopy
    * Postvoid residual (PVR) volume
    * Retrograde urethrogram
    * Tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea
    * Urinalysis
    * Urinary flow rate
    * Urine culture

## Treatment

The urethra may be widened (dilated) during cystoscopy. Topical numbing
medicine will be applied to the area before the procedure. A thin instrument
is inserted into the urethra to stretch it. You may be able to treat your
stricture by learning to dilate the urethra at home.

If urethral dilation cannot correct the condition, you may need surgery. The
type of surgery will depend on the location and length of the stricture. If
the narrowed area is short and not near the muscles that control the exit from
the bladder, the stricture may be cut or dilated.

An open urethroplasty may be done for longer strictures. This surgery involves
removing the diseased area. The urethra is then rebuilt. The results vary,
depending on the size and location of the stricture, the number of treatments
you have had, and the surgeon's experience.

In acute cases when you cannot pass urine, a suprapubic catheter may be
placed. This is an emergency treatment. This allows the bladder to drain
through the abdomen.

There are currently no drug treatments for this disease. If no other
treatments work, a urinary diversion called an appendicovesicostomy
(Mitrofanoff procedure) or another type of surgery may be done. This lets you
drain your bladder through the wall of the abdomen using a catheter or a stoma
bag.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is often excellent with treatment. Sometimes, treatment needs to
be repeated to remove scar tissue.

Urethral stricture may totally block urine flow. This can cause sudden urinary
retention. This condition must be treated quickly. Long-term blockage can lead
to permanent bladder or kidney damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of urethral stricture.

## Prevention

Practicing safer sex may decrease the risk of getting STIs and urethral
stricture.

Treating urethral stricture quickly may prevent kidney or bladder
complications.

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Augenbraun MH, McCormack WM. Urethritis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 109.

Elder JS. Obstruction of the urinary tract. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 540.

McCammon KA, Zuckerman JM, Jordan GH. Surgery of the penis and urethra. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urethral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrethralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Urethral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

