Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001599.htm    
                                Description: Meatal stenosis is a narrowing of the opening of the urethra, the tube through which urine leaves the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meatal stenosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001599.htm

# Meatal stenosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meatal stenosis is a narrowing of the opening of the urethra, the tube through
which urine leaves the body.

## Causes

Meatal stenosis can affect both males and females. It is more common in males.

In males, it is often caused by swelling and irritation (inflammation). In
most cases, this problem occurs in newborns after circumcision. Abnormal scar
tissue can grow across the opening of the urethra, causing it to narrow. The
problem may not be detected until the child is toilet trained.

In adult men, the condition can result from surgery on the urethra, ongoing
use of an indwelling catheter, or procedure to treat an enlarged prostate
gland (BPH).

In females, this condition is present at birth (congenital). Less commonly,
meatal stenosis may also affect adult women.

Risks include:

    * Having many endoscopic procedures (cystoscopy)
    * Severe, long-term atrophic vaginitis

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abnormal strength and direction of urine stream
    * Bed wetting
    * Bleeding (hematuria) at end of urination
    * Discomfort with urination or straining with urination
    * Incontinence (day or night)
    * Visible narrow opening in boys 

## Exams and Tests

In men and boys, a history and physical exam are enough to make the diagnosis.

In girls, a voiding cystourethrogram may be done. The narrowing may also be
found during a physical exam, or when a health care provider tries to place a
Foley catheter.

Other tests may include:

    * Kidney and bladder ultrasound
    * Urine analysis
    * Urine culture

## Treatment

In females, meatal stenosis is most often treated in the provider's office.
This is done using local anesthesia to numb the area. Then the opening of the
urethra is widened (dilated) with special instruments.

In boys, a minor outpatient surgery called meatoplasty is the treatment of
choice. Dilation of the meatus may also be appropriate in some cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people will urinate normally after treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Abnormal urine stream
    * Blood in the urine
    * Frequent urination
    * Painful urination
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary tract infections
    * Damage to bladder or kidney function in severe cases

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

If your baby boy has recently been circumcised, try to keep the diaper clean
and dry. Avoid exposing the newly circumcised penis to anyÂ irritants. They
may cause inflammation and narrowing of the opening.

## Alternative Names

Urethral meatal stenosis

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Meatal stenosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8861t.jpg)Meatal stenosis

## References

Elder JS. Anomalies of the penis and urethra. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 544.

Marien T, Kadihasanoglu M, Miller NL. Complications of endoscopic procedures
for benign prostatic hyperplasia. In: Taneja SS, Shah O, eds. _Complications
of Urologic Surgery_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

McCammon KA, Zuckerman JM, Jordan GH. Surgery of the penis and urethra. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

Stephany HA, Ost MC. Urologic disorders. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk
AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 15.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urethral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrethralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Urethral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

