Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000371.htm    
                                Description: Chronic thyroiditis is caused by a reaction of the immune systemÂ against the thyroid gland. It often results in reduced thyroid function (hypothyroidism).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic thyroiditis (Hashimoto disease)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000371.htm

# Chronic thyroiditis (Hashimoto disease)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic thyroiditis is caused by a reaction of the immune systemÂ against the
thyroid gland. It often results in reduced thyroid function (hypothyroidism).

The disorder is also called Hashimoto disease.

The thyroid gland is located in the neck, just above where your collarbones
meet in the middle.

## Causes

Hashimoto disease is a common thyroid gland disorder. It can occur at any age,
but is most often seen in middle-aged women. It is caused by a reaction of the
immune system against the thyroid gland.

The disease begins slowly. It may take months or even years for the condition
to be detected and for thyroid hormone levels to become lower than normal.
Hashimoto disease is most common in people with a family history of thyroid
disease.

In very rare cases, the disease may be related to other hormone problems
caused by the immune system. It can occur with poor adrenal function and type
1 diabetes. In these cases, the condition is called type 2 polyglandular
autoimmune syndrome (PGA II).

Very rarely (usually in children), Hashimoto disease occurs as part of a
condition called type 1 polyglandular autoimmune syndrome (PGA I), along with:

    * Poor function of the adrenal glands
    * Fungal infections of the mouth and nails
    * Underactive parathyroid gland

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Hashimoto disease may include any of the following:

    * Constipation
    * Difficulty concentrating or thinking
    * Dry skin
    * Enlarged neck or presence of goiter,Â which may be the only early symptom
    * Fatigue
    * Hair loss
    * Heavy or irregular periods
    * Intolerance to cold
    * Mild weight gain
    * Small or shrunken thyroid gland (late in the disease) 

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests to determine thyroid function include:

    * Free T4 test
    * Serum TSH
    * Total T3
    * Thyroid autoantibodies

Imaging studies and fine needle biopsy are generally not needed to diagnose
Hashimoto thyroiditis.

This disease may also change the results of the following tests:

    * Complete blood count 
    * Serum prolactin
    * Serum sodium
    * Total cholesterol 

Untreated hypothyroidism can change how your body uses medicines that you may
take for other conditions, such as epilepsy. You'll likely need to have
regular blood tests to check the levels of the medicines in your body.

## Treatment

If you have findings of an underactive thyroid, you may receive thyroid
replacement medicine.

Not everyone with thyroiditis or goiter has low levels of thyroid hormone. You
may just need regular follow-up by a health care provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease stays stable for years. If it does slowly progress to thyroid
hormone deficiency (hypothyroidism), it can be treated with hormone
replacement therapy.

## Possible Complications

This condition can occur with other autoimmune disorders. In rare cases,
thyroid cancer or thyroid lymphoma may develop.

Severe untreated hypothyroidism can lead to a change in consciousness, coma,
and death. This usually occurs if people get an infection, are injured, or
take medicines, such as opioids.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of chronic thyroiditis or
hypothyroidism.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disorder. Being aware of risk factors
may allow earlier diagnosis and treatment.

## Alternative Names

Hashimoto thyroiditis; Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis; Autoimmune
thyroiditis; Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis; Lymphadenoid goiter - Hashimoto;
Hypothyroidism - Hashimoto; Type 2 polyglandular autoimmune syndrome -
Hashimoto; PGA II - Hashimoto

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1206t.jpg)Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan
    * ![Hashimoto's disease \(chronic thyroiditis\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17068t.jpg)Hashimoto's disease (chronic thyroiditis)
    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Amino N, Lazarus JH, De Groot LJ. Chronic (Hashimoto's) thyroiditis. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 86.

Brent GA, Weetman AP. Hypothyroidism and thyroiditis. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Jonklaas J, Bianco AC, Bauer AJ, et al. Guidelines for the treatment of
hypothyroidism: prepared by the American Thyroid Association task force on
thyroid hormone replacement. _Thyroid_. 2014;24(12):1670-1751. PMID: 25266247
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25266247.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

