Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000353.htm    
                                Description: Hypothyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone. This condition is often called underactive thyroid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypothyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000353.htm

# Hypothyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypothyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland does not make enough
thyroid hormone. This condition is often called underactive thyroid.

![Hypothyroidism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17072.jpg)

## Causes

The thyroid gland is an important organ of the endocrine system. It is located
at the front of the neck, just above where your collarbones meet. The thyroid
makes hormones that control the way every cell in the body uses energy. This
process is called metabolism.

![Brain-thyroid link](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19148.jpg)

Hypothyroidism is more common in women and people over age 50.

The most common cause of hypothyroidism is thyroiditis. Swelling and
inflammation damage the thyroid gland's cells.

Causes of this problem include:

    * The immune system attacking the thyroid gland
    * Viral infections (common cold) or other respiratory infections
    * Pregnancy (often called postpartum thyroiditis) 

Other causes of hypothyroidism include:

    * Certain medicines, such as lithium and amiodarone, and some types of chemotherapy
    * Congenital (birth) defects
    * Radiation treatments to the neck or brain to treat different cancers
    * Radioactive iodine used to treat an overactive thyroid gland
    * Surgical removal of part or all of the thyroid gland
    * Sheehan syndrome, a condition that may occur in a woman who bleeds severely during pregnancy or childbirth and causes the destruction of the pituitary gland
    * Pituitary tumor or pituitary surgery 

## Symptoms

Early symptoms:

    * Hard stools or constipation
    * Feeling cold (wearing a sweater when others are wearing a t-shirt)
    * Fatigue or feeling slowed down
    * Heavier and irregular menstrual periods
    * Joint or muscle pain
    * Paleness or dry skin
    * Sadness or depression
    * Thin, brittle hair or fingernails
    * Weakness
    * Weight gain

Late symptoms, if untreated:

    * Decreased taste and smell
    * Hoarseness
    * Puffy face, hands, and feet
    * Slow speech
    * Thickening of the skin
    * Thinning of eyebrows
    * Low body temperature
    * Slow heart rate 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam and may find that your
thyroid gland is enlarged. Sometimes, the gland is normal size or smaller-
than-normal. The exam may also reveal:

    * Thin brittle hair
    * Coarse features of the face
    * Pale or dry skin, which may be cool to the touch
    * Reflexes that are abnormal
    * Swelling of the arms and legs 

Blood tests are also ordered to measure your thyroid hormones TSH and T4.

You may also have tests to check:

    * Cholesterol levels
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver enzymes
    * Prolactin
    * Sodium
    * Cortisol

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at replacing the thyroid hormone you are lacking.

Levothyroxine is the most commonly used medicine:

    * You will be prescribed the lowest dose possible that relieves your symptoms and brings your blood hormone levels back to normal.
    * If you have heart disease or you are older, your doctor may start you on a very small dose.
    * Most people with an underactive thyroid will need to take this medicine for life. 

When starting you on your medicine, your doctor may check your hormone levels
every 2 to 3 months. After that, your thyroid hormone levels should be
monitored at least once every year.

When you are taking thyroid medicine, be aware of the following:

    * DO NOT stop taking the medicine even when you feel better. Continue taking it exactly as your doctor prescribed.
    * If you change brands of thyroid medicine, let your doctor know. Your levels may need to be checked.
    * What you eat can change the way your body absorbs thyroid medicine. Talk with your doctor if you are eating a lot of soy products or are on a high-fiber diet.
    * Thyroid medicine works best on an empty stomach and when taken 1 hour before any other medicines. Ask your doctor if you should take your medicine at bedtime. Taking it at bedtime may allow your body to absorb the medicine better than taking it in the daytime.
    * Wait at least 4 hours after taking thyroid hormone before you take fiber supplements, calcium, iron, multivitamins, aluminum hydroxide antacids, colestipol, or medicines that bind bile acids. 

While you are taking thyroid replacement therapy, tell your doctor if you have
any symptoms that suggest your dose is too high, such as:

    * Palpitations
    * Rapid weight loss
    * Restlessness or shakiness
    * Sweating 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, thyroid hormone level becomes normal with proper treatment. You
will likely take a thyroid hormone medicine for the rest of your life.

## Possible Complications

Myxedema coma, the most severe form of hypothyroidism, is rare. It occurs when
thyroid hormone levels get very low. It can be caused by an infection,
illness, exposure to cold, or certain medicines in people with untreated
hypothyroidism.

Myxedema coma is a medical emergency that must be treated in the hospital.
Some people may need oxygen, breathing assistance (ventilator), fluid
replacement, and intensive-care nursing.

Symptoms and signs of myxedema coma include:

    * Below normal temperature
    * Decreased breathing
    * Low blood pressure
    * Low blood sugar
    * Unresponsiveness
    * Inappropriate or uncharacteristic moods 

People with untreated hypothyroidism are at increased risk of:

    * Infection
    * Infertility, miscarriage, giving birth to a baby with birth defects
    * Heart disease because of higher levels of LDL (bad) cholesterol
    * Heart failure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of hypothyroidism.

If you are being treated for hypothyroidism, call your doctor if:

    * You develop chest pain or rapid heartbeat
    * You have an infection
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment
    * You develop new symptoms 

## Alternative Names

Myxedema; Adult hypothyroidism; Underactive thyroid; Goiter - hypothyroidism;
Thyroiditis - hypothyroidism; Thyroid hormone - hypothyroidism

## Patient Instructions

    * Thyroid gland removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Hypothyroidism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17072t.jpg)Hypothyroidism
    * ![Brain-thyroid link](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19148t.jpg)Brain-thyroid link
    * ![Primary and secondary hypothyroidism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17126t.jpg)Primary and secondary hypothyroidism

## References

Brent GA, Weetman AP. Hypothyroidism and thyroiditis. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Ferri FF. Hypothyroidism. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2019_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:761-762.

Garber JR, Cobin RH, Gharib H, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for
hypothyroidism in adults: cosponsored by the American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists and the American Thyroid Association. _Endocr Pract_.
2012;18(6):988-1028. PMID: 23246686 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23246686.

Jonklaas J, Bianco AC, Bauer AJ, et al; American Thyroid Association Task
Force on Thyroid Hormone Replacement. Guidelines for the treatment of
hypothyroidism: prepared by the american thyroid associationtask force on
thyroid hormone replacement. _Thyroid_. 2014;24(12):1670-1751. PMID: 25266247
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25266247.

## Review Date 6/14/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

