Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007458.htm    
                                Description: Women    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Women's health

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007458.htm

# Women's health

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Women's health refers to the branch of medicine that focuses on the treatment
and diagnosis of diseases and conditions that affect a woman's physical and
emotional well-being.

## Information

Women's health includes a wide range of specialties and focus areas, such as:

    * Birth control, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and gynecology
    * Breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and other female cancers
    * Mammography
    * Menopause and hormone therapy
    * Osteoporosis
    * Pregnancy and childbirth
    * Sexual health
    * Women and heart disease
    * Benign conditions affecting the function of the female reproductive organs 

PREVENTATIVE CARE AND SCREENINGS

Preventative care for women includes the following services:

    * Regular gynecological checkups, including a pelvic exam and breast exam
    * Pap smear and HPV testing
    * Bone density testing
    * Breast cancer screening
    * Discussions about colon cancer screening
    * Age-appropriate immunizations
    * Healthy lifestyle risk assessment
    * Hormonal testing for menopause
    * Immunizations
    * Screening for STIs 

Breast self-exam instruction may also be included.

BREAST CARE SERVICES

Breast care services include the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer,
which may involve:

    * Breast biopsy
    * Breast MRI scan
    * Breast ultrasound
    * Genetic testing and counseling for women with a family or personal history of breast cancer
    * Hormonal therapy, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy
    * Mammography
    * Mastectomy and breast reconstruction 

The breast care services team may also diagnose and treat noncancerous
conditions of the breast, including:

    * Benign breast lumps
    * Lymphedema, a condition in which excess fluid collects in tissue and causes swelling 

SEXUAL HEALTH SERVICES

Your sexual health is an important part of your overall well-being. Women's
sexual health services may include:

    * Birth control (contraceptives)
    * Prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of sexually-transmitted infections
    * Therapies to help with problems with sexual function 

GYNECOLOGY AND REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH SERVICES

Gynecology and reproductive health services may include the diagnosis and
treatment of various conditions and diseases, including:

    * Abnormal Pap smears
    * Presence of high-risk HPV
    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding
    * Bacterial vaginosis
    * Endometriosis
    * Heavy menstrual cycles
    * Irregular menstrual cycles
    * Other vaginal infections
    * Ovarian cysts
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)
    * Pelvic pain
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
    * Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD)
    * Uterine fibroids
    * Uterine and vaginal prolapse
    * Vaginal yeast infection
    * Various conditions affecting the vulva and vagina 

PREGNANCY AND CHILDBIRTH SERVICES

Regular prenatal care is an important part of every pregnancy. Pregnancy and
childbirth services include:

    * Planning and preparing for pregnancy, including information about proper diet, prenatal vitamins, and review of pre-existing medical conditions and medicines used
    * Prenatal care, delivery, and postpartum care
    * High-risk pregnancy care (maternal-fetal medicine)
    * Breastfeeding and nursing 

INFERTILITY SERVICES

Infertility specialists are an important part of the women's health services
team. Infertility services may include:

    * Testing to determine the cause of infertility (a cause may not always be found)
    * Blood and imaging tests to monitor ovulation
    * Infertility treatments
    * Counseling for couples who are dealing with infertility or loss of a baby 

Types of infertility treatments that may be offered include:

    * Medicines to stimulate ovulation
    * Intrauterine insemination
    * In vitro fertilization (IVF)
    * Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) -- Injection of a single sperm directly into an egg
    * Embryo cryopreservation: Freezing embryos for use at a later date
    * Egg donation
    * Sperm banking 

BLADDER CARE SERVICES

The women's health services team can also help diagnose and treat bladder-
related conditions. Bladder-related conditions that may affect women can
include:

    * Bladder emptying disorders
    * Urinary incontinence and overactive bladder
    * Interstitial cystitis
    * Prolapse of the bladder 

If you have a bladder condition, your women's health specialist may recommend
that you do Kegel exercises to strengthen the muscles in your pelvic floor.

OTHER WOMEN'S HEALTH SERVICES

    * Cosmetic surgery and skin care, including skin cancer
    * Diet and nutrition services
    * Psychological care and counseling for women dealing with abuse or sexual assault
    * Sleep disorders services
    * Smoking cessation 

TREATMENTS AND PROCEDURES

Members of the women's health services team perform a variety of different
treatments and procedures. Among the most common are:

    * Cesarean section (C-section)
    * Endometrial ablation
    * Endometrial biopsy
    * D&C
    * Hysterectomy
    * Hysteroscopy
    * Mastectomy and breast reconstruction
    * Pelvic laparoscopy
    * Procedures to treat precancerous changes of the cervix (LEEP, Cone biopsy)
    * Procedures to treat urinary incontinence
    * Tubal ligation and reversal of tubal sterilization
    * Uterine artery embolization 

WHO TAKES CARE OF YOU

The women's health services team includes doctors and health care providers
from a variety of different specialties. The team may include:

    * Obstetrician/gynecologist (ob/gyn) -- A doctor who has received extra training in the treatment of pregnancy, reproductive organ problems, and other women's health issues.
    * General surgeons specializing in breast care.
    * Perinatologist -- An ob/gyn who has received further training and specializes in the care of high-risk pregnancies.
    * Radiologist -- Doctors who received extra training and interpretation of different imaging as well as performing different procedures using imaging technology to treat disorders such as uterine fibroids.
    * Physician assistant (PA).
    * Primary care doctor.
    * Nurse practitioner (NP).
    * Nurse midwives. 

This list may not be all-inclusive.

## References

Freund K. Approach to women's health. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 237.

McGarry K, Babb K, Edmonds L, Duffy C, Anvar M, Jeremiah J. Women's health
topics. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG, eds. _Andreoli and
Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

Schrager SB, Paladine HL, Cadwallader K. Gynecology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Women's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Womenhealth_thumb.jpg)Women's
Health _Read more_

![Photograph of a female doctor discussing medication with a female
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/doctorpatient3_thumb.jpg)Women's
Health Checkup _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

