Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007622.htm    
                                Description: Most of the time, women have fine hair above their lips and on their chins, chests, abdomens, or backs. The growth of coarse dark hair in these areas (more typical of male-pattern hair growth) is called    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Excessive or unwanted hair in women

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007622.htm

# Excessive or unwanted hair in women

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most of the time, women have fine hair above their lips and on their chins,
chests, abdomens, or backs. The growth of coarse dark hair in these areas
(more typical of male-pattern hair growth) is called hirsutism.

## Causes

Women normally produce low levels of male hormones (androgens). If your body
makes too much of this hormone, you may have unwanted hair growth.

In most cases, the exact cause is never known. The condition often runs in
families.

A common cause of hirsutism is polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). Women with
PCOS and other hormone conditions that cause unwanted hair growth may also
have:

    * Acne
    * Problems with menstrual periods
    * Trouble losing weight
    * Diabetes 

If these symptoms start suddenly, you may have a tumor that releases male
hormones.

Other, rare causes of unwanted hair growth may include:

    * Tumor or cancer of the adrenal gland.
    * Tumor or cancer of the ovary.
    * Cushing syndrome.
    * Congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
    * Hyperthecosis. A condition in which the ovaries produce too much male hormones. 

Use of certain medicines may also be the cause of unwanted hair growth,
including:

    * Testosterone
    * Danazol
    * Anabolic steroids
    * DHEA
    * Glucocorticoids
    * Cyclosporine
    * Minoxidil
    * Phenytoin 

In rare cases, women with hirsutism have normal levels of male hormones, and
the specific cause of the unwanted hair growth cannot be identified.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of this condition is the presence of coarse dark hair in
areas that are sensitive to male hormones. These areas include:

    * Chin and upper lip
    * Chest and upper abdomen
    * Back and buttocks
    * Inner thigh 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

Tests that may be done may include any of the following:

    * Testosterone test
    * DHEA-sulfate test
    * Pelvic ultrasound (if virilization is present)
    * CT scan or MRI (if virilzation is present)
    * 17-hydroxyprogesterone blood test
    * ACTH stimulation test

## Treatment

Hirsutism is generally a long-term problem. There are many ways to remove or
treat unwanted hair. Some treatment effects last longer than others.

    *  **Medicines.** Drugs such as birth control pills and anti-androgen medicines are an option for some women.
    *  **Electrolysis.** Electrical current is used to permanently damage individual hair follicles so they do not grow back. This method is expensive, and multiple treatments are needed. Swelling, scarring, and redness of the skin may occur.
    *  **Laser energy directed at the dark color (melanin) in the hairs.** This method is best for a large area of very dark hair. It does not work on blond or red hair. 

Temporary options include:

    *  **Shaving.** Although this does not cause more hair to grow, it may make hair look thicker.
    *  **Chemicals, plucking, and waxing.** These options are safe and inexpensive. However, chemical products may irritate the skin. 

For women who are overweight, weight loss may be able to help reduce hair
growth.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hair follicles grow for about 6 months before falling out. Therefore, it takes
many months of taking medicine before you will notice a decrease in hair
growth.

Many women get good results with temporary steps to remove hair or lighten it.

## Possible Complications

Most of the time, hirsutism does not cause health problems. But many women
find it bothersome or embarrassing.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * The hair grows rapidly
    * You also have male features such as acne, deepening voice, increased muscle mass, male pattern thinning of your hair, and decreased breast size
    * You are concerned that medicine you are taking may be increasing the growth of unwanted hair

## Alternative Names

Hypertrichosis; Hirsutism; Hair - excessive (women); Excessive hair in women;
Hair - women - excessive or unwanted

## References

Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Duncan KO, Ko CJ. Hypertrichosis and hirsutism. In:
Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Duncan KO, Ko CJ, eds. _Dermatology Essentials_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 57.

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Habif TP. Hair diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
24.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hairproblems_thumb.jpg)Hair
Problems _Read more_

![Women's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Womenhealth_thumb.jpg)Women's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

