Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pepticulcer.html    
                                Description: Dull and burning stomach pain are common symptoms of a peptic ulcer. Read about tests that help detect stomach ulcers and get relief for your belly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Peptic Ulcer

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pepticulcer.html

#  Peptic Ulcer

Also called: Duodenal ulcer, Gastric ulcer, Stomach ulcer, Ulcer

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of your stomach or your duodenum, the
first part of your small intestine. A burning stomach pain is the most common
symptom. The pain

    * Starts between meals or during the night
    * Briefly stops if you eat or take antacids
    * Lasts for minutes to hours
    * Comes and goes for several days or weeks

Peptic ulcers happen when the acids that help you digest food damage the walls
of the stomach or duodenum. The most common cause is infection with a
bacterium called Helicobacter pylori. Another cause is the long-term use of
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) such as aspirin and
ibuprofen. Stress and spicy foods do not cause ulcers, but can make them
worse.

To see if you have an H. pylori infection, your doctor will test your blood,
breath, or stool. Your doctor also may look inside your stomach and duodenum
by doing an endoscopy or x-ray.

Peptic ulcers will get worse if not treated. Treatment may include medicines
to reduce stomach acids or antibiotics to kill H. pylori. Antacids and milk
can't heal peptic ulcers. Not smoking and avoiding alcohol can help. You may
need surgery if your ulcers don't heal.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Definition and Facts for Peptic Ulcers (Stomach Ulcers) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Peptic Ulcer Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Peptic Ulcer Disease (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * Ulcers (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Gastrointestinal Bleeding: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Symptoms and Causes of Peptic Ulcer Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Diagnosis of Peptic Ulcer Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Helicobacter Pylori (H. Pylori) Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Upper Gastrointestinal (GI) Series ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Upper GI Endoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment for Peptic Ulcer Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Related Issues

    * Helicobacter pylori and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Stomach ulcer ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Duodenal Ulcer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Peptic Ulcer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Stomach Ulcer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Increased risk of herpes zoster in patients with peptic ulcers: A...
    * Article: Gastrointestinal bleeding prophylaxis for critically ill patients: a clinical practice guideline.
    * Article: Insights into Effects/Risks of Chronic Hypergastrinemia and Lifelong PPI Treatment in...
    * Peptic Ulcer -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American College of Gastroenterology
    * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Peptic Ulcers (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Ulcers (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Culture - duodenal tissue (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Peptic ulcer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Stomach acid test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tests for H. pylori (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Peptic Ulcer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PepticUlcer.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Bloody or tarry stools
    * Culture - duodenal tissue
    * Gastric tissue biopsy and culture
    * Gastrin blood test
    * Peptic ulcer
    * Stomach acid test
    * Stomach ulcer
    * Tests for H. pylori
    * Zollinger-Ellison syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Helicobacter Pylori Infections
    * Stomach Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Peptic Ulcer is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 September 2019 Topic last reviewed: 20 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

