Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007465.htm    
                                Description: You should visit your health care provider regularly, even if you feel healthy. The purpose of these visits is to:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Health screenings for men ages 40 to 64

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007465.htm

# Health screenings for men ages 40 to 64

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You should visit your health care provider regularly, even if you feel
healthy. The purpose of these visits is to:

    * Screen for medical issues
    * Assess your risk for future medical problems
    * Encourage a healthy lifestyle
    * Update vaccinations
    * Help you get to know your provider in case of an illness 

## Information

Even if you feel fine, you should still see your provider for regular
checkups. These visits can help you avoid problems in the future. For example,
the only way to find out if you have high blood pressure is to have it checked
regularly. High blood sugar and high cholesterol level also may not have any
symptoms in the early stages. Simple blood tests can check for these
conditions.

There are specific times when you should see your provider. Below are
screening guidelines for men ages 40 to 64.

BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

    * Have your blood pressure checked at least once a year. If the top number (systolic number) is between 120 to 139 mm Hg or the bottom number (diastolic number) is between 80 to 89 mm Hg, then continue to have it checked every year.
    * If the top number is greater than 140 or the bottom number is greater than 90, schedule an appointment with your provider.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, or certain other conditions, you may need to have your blood pressure checked more often.
    * Watch for blood pressure screenings in your area. Ask your provider if you can stop in to have your blood pressure checked. 
![Effects of age on blood
pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8693.jpg)

CHOLESTEROL SCREENING AND HEART DISEASE PREVENTION

    * Your cholesterol should be checked every 5 years.
    * If you have a high cholesterol level, diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, or certain other conditions, you may need to be checked more often.
    * Some men should consider taking aspirin to prevent heart attacks. Ask your provider before you start aspirin because aspirin may increase your risk for bleeding. 

DIABETES SCREENING

    * If you are age 45 or older, you should be screened every 3 years.
    * If you are overweight, ask your provider if you should be screened at a younger age. Asian Americans should be screened if their BMI is greater than 23.
    * If your blood pressure is above 140/80 mm Hg, or you have other risk factors for diabetes, your provider may test your blood sugar level for diabetes. 

COLORECTAL CANCER SCREENING

If you are under age 50, talk to your health care provider about getting
screened. You should be screened if you have a strong family history of colon
cancer or polyps. Screening may also be considered if you have risk factors
such as a history of inflammatory bowel disease or polyps.

If you are between ages 50 to 75, you should be screened for colorectal
cancer. There are several screening tests available:

    * A fecal occult blood (stool-based) test done every year
    * A fecal immunochemical test (FIT) every year
    * A stool DNA test every 3 years
    * Flexible sigmoidoscopy every 5 years
    * Double contrast barium enema every 5 years
    * CT colonography (virtual colonoscopy) every 5 years
    * Colonoscopy every 10 years 

You may need a colonoscopy more often if you have risk factors for colorectal
cancer, such as:

    * Ulcerative colitis
    * A personal or family history of colorectal cancer
    * A history of growths called adenomatous polyps

DENTAL EXAM

    * Go to the dentist once or twice every year for an exam and cleaning. Your dentist will evaluate if you have a need for more frequent visits. 

EYE EXAM

Have an eye exam every 2 to 4 years ages 40 to 54 and every 1 to 3 years ages
55 to 64. Your provider may recommend more frequent eye exams if you have
vision problems or glaucoma risk.

Have an eye exam at least every year if you have diabetes.

IMMUNIZATIONS

    * You should get a flu shot every year.
    * Your provider may recommend other vaccinations if you have certain medical conditions, such as diabetes.
    * You should have a tetanus-diphtheria booster vaccination every 10 years. If you have not received a tetanus-diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine as one of your tetanus-diphtheria vaccines, you should have it once.
    * You may get a shingles or herpes zoster vaccination once after age 50. 

OSTEOPOROSIS SCREENING

    * If you are between ages 50 to 70 and have risk factors for osteoporosis, you should discuss screening with your provider.
    * Risk factors can include long-term steroid use, low body weight, smoking, heavy alcohol use, having a fracture after age 50, or a family history of osteoporosis. 
![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17285.jpg)

PHYSICAL EXAM

    * Your blood pressure should be checked at least every year.
    * Your height, weight, and body mass index (BMI) should be checked at every exam. 

During your exam, your provider may ask you about:

    * Depression
    * Diet and exercise
    * Alcohol and tobacco use
    * Safety, such as use of seat belts and smoke detectors 

PROSTATE CANCER SCREENING

    * Most men age 50 or older should discuss screening for prostate cancer with their provider. African American men and those with a family history of prostate cancer in a first degree relative younger than age 65 should discuss screening at age 45.
    * The potential benefits of PSA testing as a routine screening test have not been definitively shown to outweigh the harms of testing and treatment. If you choose to be tested, the PSA blood test is most often done every year.
    * Prostate examinations are no longer routinely done on men with no symptoms. 
![Prostate cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/10054.jpg)

TESTICULAR EXAM

    * The US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) now recommends against performing testicular self-exams. Doing testicular self-exams has been shown to have little to no benefit. 

LUNG CANCER SCREENING

The USPSTF recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed
tomography (LDCT) in adults ages 55 to 80 years who:

    * Have a 30 pack-year smoking history AND
    * Currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years 

## Alternative Names

Health maintenance visit - men - ages 40 to 64; Physical exam - men - ages 40
to 64; Yearly exam - men - ages 40 to 64; Checkup - men - ages 40 to 64; Men's
health - ages 40 to 64; Preventive care - men - ages 40 to 64

## Images

    * ![Prostate cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10054t.jpg)Prostate cancer
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17285t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Effects of age on blood pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8693t.jpg)Effects of age on blood pressure

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Policy statement: frequency of
ocular examinations - 2015. www.aao.org/clinical-statement/frequency-of-
ocular-examinations. Updated March 2015. Accessed June 1, 2018.

American Dental Association website. Your top 9 questions about going to the
dentist - answered. www.mouthhealthy.org/en/dental-care-concerns/questions-
about-going-to-the-dentist. Accessed June 1, 2018.

American Diabetes Association. Standards of medical care in diabetes -- 2018.
_Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S1-S104. PMID: 29222369Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222369.

Atkins D, Barton M. The periodic health examination. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 15.

Carter HB, Albertsen PC, Barry MJ, et al. Early detection of prostate cancer:
AUA Guideline. _J Urol_. 2013;190(2):419-426. PMID: 23659877
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23659877.

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 evidence-based guideline for the
management of high blood pressure in adults: report from the panel members
appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). _JAMA_.
2014;311(5):507-520. PMID: 24352797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24352797.

Kim DK, Riley LE, Harriman KH, Hunter P, Bridges CB; Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices. Recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19
years or older, United States, 2018. _Ann Intern Med_. 2018;168(3):210-220.
PMID: 29404596 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29404596.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_.
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for lung cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med._
2014;160(5):330-338. PMID: 24378917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24378917.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure
in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2015;163(10):778-786. PMID: 26458123
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458123.

Smith RA, Andrews KS, Brooks D, et al. Cancer screening in the United States,
2017: a review of current American Cancer Society guidelines and current
issues in cancer screening. _CA Cancer J Clin_. 2017;67(2):100-121. PMID:
28170086 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28170086.

Stone NJ, Robinson J, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2014;129(25
Suppl 2):S1-S45. PMID: 24222016 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222016.

US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for testicular cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force reaffirmation recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2011;154(7):483-486. PMID: 21464350
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21464350.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ,
et al. Screening for colorectal cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;315(23):2564-2575. PMID: 27304597
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27304597.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Screening for
prostate cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_JAMA_. 2018;319(18):1901-1913. PMID: 29801017
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29801017.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Health
Checkup](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthCheckup_thumb.jpg)Health Checkup
_Read more_

![Men's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MensHealth2_thumb.jpg)Men's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

