Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000722.htm    
                                Description: Testosterone is a hormone made by the testicles. It is important for a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Could you have low testosterone?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000722.htm

# Could you have low testosterone?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testosterone is a hormone made by the testicles. It is important for a man's
sex drive and physical appearance.

Certain health conditions, medicines, or injury can lead to low testosterone
(low-T). Testosterone level also naturally drops with age. Low testosterone
can affect sex drive, mood, and changes in muscle and fat.

Treatment with testosterone therapy may help reduce symptoms.

## How Testosterone Affects Health

Testosterone makes a man look and feel like a man. In a man, this hormone
helps:

    * Keep bones and muscles strong
    * Determine hair growth and where fat is on the body
    * Make sperm
    * Maintain sex drive and erections
    * Make red blood cells
    * Boost energy and mood 

## Causes of Low Testosterone

Beginning around age 30 to 40, testosterone levels may start to slowly
decrease. This occurs naturally.

Other causes of low testosterone include:

    * Medicine side effects, such as from chemotherapy
    * Testicle injury or cancer
    * Problems with glands in the brain (hypothalamus and pituitary) that control hormone production
    * Low thyroid function
    * Too much body fat (obesity)
    * Other disorders, chronic diseases, medical treatments, or infection 

## Symptoms

Some men with low testosterone do not have any symptoms. Others may have:

    * Low sex drive
    * Problems having an erection
    * Low sperm count
    * Sleep problems such as insomnia
    * Decrease in muscle size and strength
    * Bone loss
    * Increase in body fat
    * Depression
    * Trouble concentrating 

Some symptoms may be a normal part of aging. For example, it is normal to feel
less interested in sex as you get older. But, it is not usually normal to have
no interest in sex.

Symptoms may also be caused by other conditions, such as high blood pressure
or diabetes. If any of these symptoms are bothering you, talk with your health
care provider.

## Treatment Options

Your provider will likely have you get a blood test to check your testosterone
level. You will also be checked for other causes of your symptoms. These
include medicine side effects, thyroid problems, or depression.

If you have low testosterone, hormone therapy may help. The medicine used is
man-made testosterone. This treatment is called testosterone replacement
therapy, or TRT. TRT can be given as a pill, gel, patch, injection, or
implant.

TRT may relieve or improve symptoms in some men. It may help keep bones and
muscles strong. TRT seems to be more effective in young men with very low
testosterone levels. TRT can also be helpful for older men.

TRT has risks. These may include:

    * Infertility
    * Enlarged prostate leading to difficulty urinating
    * Blood clots
    * Worsening heart failure 
    * Sleep problems
    * Cholesterol problems

At this time, it is unclear whether TRT increases the risk of heart attack,
stroke, or prostate cancer.

Talk with your provider about whether TRT is right for you. If you do not
notice any change in symptoms after treatment for 3 months, it is less likely
that TRT treatment will benefit you.

If you decide to start TRT, be sure to see your provider for regular checkups.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of low testosterone
    * You have questions or concerns about treatment 

## Alternative Names

Male menopause; Andropause; Testosterone deficiency; Low-T; Androgen
deficiency of the aging male; Late-onset hypogonadism

## References

Allan CA, McLachlin RI. Androgen deficiency disorders. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 139.

Morgentaler A, Zitzmann M, Traish AM, et al. Fundamental concepts regarding
testosterone deficiency and treatment: international expert consensus
resolutions. _Mayo Clin Proc_. 2016;91(7):881-896. PMID: 27313122
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27313122.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration website. FDA drug safety communication: FDA
cautions about using testosterone products for low testosterone due to aging;
requires labeling change to inform of possible increased risk of heart attack
and stroke with use. www.fda.gov/drugs/drugsafety/ucm436259.htm. Updated
February 26, 2018. Accessed May 20, 2019.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hormones
    * Men's Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

