Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003707.htm    
                                Description: A testosterone test measures the amount of the male hormone, testosterone, in the blood. Both men and women produce this hormone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testosterone

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003707.htm

# Testosterone

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A testosterone test measures the amount of the male hormone, testosterone, in
the blood. Both men and women produce this hormone.

The test described in this article measures the total amount of testosterone
in the blood. Much of the testosterone in the blood is bound to a protein
called sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). Another blood test can measure the
"free" testosterone. However, this type of test is often not very accurate.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is taken from a vein. The best time for the blood sample to be
taken is between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. A second sample is often needed to confirm
a result that is lower than expected.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The health care provider may advise you to stop taking medicines that may
affect the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a slight prick or sting when the needle is inserted. There may be
some throbbing afterward.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done if you have symptoms of abnormal male hormone (androgen)
production.

In males, the testicles produce most of the testosterone in the body. Levels
are most often checked to evaluate signs of abnormal testosterone such as:

    * Early or late puberty (in boys)
    * Infertility, erectile dysfunction, low level of sexual interest, thinning of the bones (in men) 

In females, the ovaries produce most of the testosterone. The adrenal glands
can also produce too much of other androgens that are converted to
testosterone. Levels are most often checked to evaluate signs of higher
testosterone levels, such as:

    * Acne, oily skin
    * Change in voice
    * Decreased breast size
    * Excess hair growth (dark, coarse hairs in the area of the moustache, beard, sideburns, chest, buttocks, inner thighs)
    * Increased size of the clitoris
    * Irregular or absent menstrual periods
    * Male-pattern baldness or hair thinning 

## Normal Results

Normal measurements for these tests:

    * Male: 300 to 1,000 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dL) or 10.41 to 34.70 nanomoles per literÂ (nmol/L)
    * Female: 15Â to 70 ng/dL or 0.52 to 2.43 nmol/L

The examples above are common measurements for results for these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Certain health conditions, medicines, or injury can lead to low testosterone.
Testosterone level also naturally drops with age. Low testosterone can affect
sex drive, mood, and the body in men.

Decreased total testosterone may be due to:

    * Chronic illness
    * The pituitary gland does not produce normal amounts of some or all of its hormones
    * Problem with areas of the brain that control hormones
    * Low thyroid function
    * Delayed puberty
    * Diseases of the testicles (trauma, cancer, infection, immune)
    * Benign tumor of the pituitary cells that produce too much of the hormone prolactin
    * Too much body fat (obesity)

Increased total testosterone level may be due to:

    * Resistance to the action of male hormones (androgen resistance)
    * Tumor of the ovaries
    * Cancer of the testes
    * Congenital adrenal hyperplasia
    * Taking medicines or drugs that increase testosterone level

## Alternative Names

Serum testosterone

## References

Rey RA, Josso N. Diagnosis and treatment of disorders of sexual development.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 119.

Rosenfield RL, Barnes RB, Ehrmann DA. Hyperandrogenism, hirsutism, and
polycystic ovary syndrome. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

Swerdloff RS, Wang C. The testis and male hypogonadism, infertility, and
sexual dysfunction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 234.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Men's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MensHealth2_thumb.jpg)Men's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

