Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007464.htm    
                                Description: You should visit your health care provider regularly, even if you feel healthy. The purpose of these visits is to:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Health screenings for men ages 18 to 39

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007464.htm

# Health screenings for men ages 18 to 39

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You should visit your health care provider regularly, even if you feel
healthy. The purpose of these visits is to:

    * Screen for medical issues
    * Assess your risk for future medical problems
    * Encourage a healthy lifestyle
    * Update vaccinations
    * Help you get to know your provider in case of an illness 

## Information

Even if you feel fine, you should still see your provider for regular
checkups. These visits can help you avoid problems in the future. For example,
the only way to find out if you have high blood pressure is to have it checked
regularly. High blood sugar and high cholesterol level also may not have any
symptoms in the early stages. Simple blood tests can check for these
conditions.

There are specific times when you should see your provider. Below are
screening guidelines for men ages 18 to 39.

BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

    * Have your blood pressure checked at least once every 2 years. If the top number (systolic number) is between 120 and 139 or the bottom number (diastolic number) is between 80 and 89 mm Hg or higher. Then have it checked every year.
    * If the top number is greater than 140, or the bottom number is greater than 90, schedule an appointment with your provider. 
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, or certain other conditions, you may need to have your blood pressure checked more often, at least once a year.
    * Watch for blood pressure screenings in your neighborhood or workplace. Ask your provider if you can stop in to have your blood pressure checked.

CHOLESTEROL SCREENING AND HEART DISEASE PREVENTION

    * Recommended starting ages for cholesterol screening are between 20 and 35 for men. Men with normal cholesterol levels do not need to have the test repeated for 5 years.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, or certain other conditions, you may need to be checked more often.

DIABETES SCREENING

    * If your blood pressure is 140/80mm Hg or higher, your provider may test your blood sugar level for diabetes.
    * If you have a body mass index (BMI) greater than 25 and have other risk factors for diabetes, you should be screened. Having a BMI over 25 means that you are overweight. Asian Americans should be screened if their BMI is greater than 23.
    * If you have other risk factors for diabetes, such as a first degree relative with diabetes or history of heart disease, your provider will likely screen you for diabetes.

DENTAL EXAM

    * Go to the dentist once or twice every year for an exam and cleaning. Your dentist will evaluate if you have a need for more frequent visits. 

EYE EXAM

    * If you have vision problems, have an eye exam every 2 years, or more often if recommended by your provider.
    * Have an eye exam at least every year if you have diabetes.

IMMUNIZATIONS

    * After age 19, you should have a tetanus-diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine once as part of your tetanus-diphtheria vaccines if you did not receive it as an adolescent. You should have a tetanus-diphtheria booster every 10 years.
    * You should get a flu shot each year.
    * Talk with your provider about getting the human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine series if you have not already had it.
    * You should receive two doses of varicella vaccine if you never had chickenpox or the varicella vaccine.
    * Your provider may recommend other immunizations if you have certain medical conditions, such as diabetes.

INFECTIOUS DISEASE SCREENING

    * Depending on your lifestyle and medical history, you may need to be screened for infections such as syphilis, chlamydia, and HIV, as well as other infections.

PHYSICAL EXAM

    * Your blood pressure should be checked at least every 1 to 2 years.
    * Your height, weight, and BMI should be checked at every exam.

During your exam, your provider may ask you about:

    * Depression
    * Diet and exercise
    * Alcohol and tobacco use
    * Safety, such as use of seat belts and smoke detectors

TESTICULAR EXAM

    * The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends against performing testicular self-exam. Doing testicular exams has been shown to have little to no benefit.

## Alternative Names

Health maintenance visit - men - ages 18 to 39; Physical exam - men - ages 18
to 39; Yearly exam - men - ages 18 to 39; Checkup - men - ages 18 to 39; Men's
health - ages 18 to 39; Preventive care exam - men - ages 18 to 39

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Policy statement: frequency of
ocular examinations - 2015. www.aao.org/clinical-statement/frequency-of-
ocular-examinations. Updated March 2015. Accessed June 1, 2018.

American Dental Association website. Your top 9 questions about going to the
dentist - answered. www.mouthhealthy.org/en/dental-care-concerns/questions-
about-going-to-the-dentist. Accessed June 1, 2018.

American Diabetes Association. Standards of medical care in diabetes -- 2018.
_Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S1-S104. PMID: 29222369
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222369.

Atkins D, Barton M. The periodic health examination. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 15.

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Greenland P, Alpert JS, Beller GA, et al. 2010 ACCF/AHA guideline for
assessment of cardiovascular risk in asymptomatic adults: a report of the
American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2010;122(25):e584-e636. PMID:
21098428 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21098428.

James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 evidence-based guideline for the
management of high blood pressure in adults: report from the panel members
appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). _JAMA_.
2014;311(5):507-520. PMID: 24352797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24352797.

Kim DK, Riley LE, Harriman KH, Hunter P, Bridges CB; Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices. Recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19
years or older, United States, 2018. _Ann Intern Med_. 2018;168(3):210-220.
PMID: 29404596 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29404596.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B; American Heart Association Stroke
Council, et al. Guidelines for the primary prevention of stroke: a statement
for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American
Stroke Association. _Stroke_. 2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for lung cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;160(5):330-338. PMID: 24378917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24378917.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure
in adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2015;163(10):778-786. PMID: 26458123
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458123.

Stone NJ, Robinson J, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2014;129(25
Suppl 2):S1-S45. PMID: 24222016 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222016.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ,
et al. Screening for colorectal cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;315(23):2564-2575. PMID: 27304597
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27304597.

US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for testicular cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force reaffirmation recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2011;154(7):483-486. PMID: 21464350
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21464350.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Health
Checkup](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthCheckup_thumb.jpg)Health Checkup
_Read more_

![Men's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MensHealth2_thumb.jpg)Men's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

