Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000693.htm    
                                Description: Diarrhea is the passage of loose or watery stools. For some children, diarrhea is mild and will go away within a few days. For others, it may last longer. It can make your child lose too much fluid (dehydrated)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When your child has diarrhea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000693.htm

# When your child has diarrhea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diarrhea is the passage of loose or watery stools. For some children, diarrhea
is mild and will go away within a few days. For others, it may last longer. It
can make your child lose too much fluid (dehydrated) and feel weak.

The stomach flu is a common cause of diarrhea. Medical treatments, such as
antibiotics and some cancer treatments can also cause diarrhea.

This article speaks of diarrhea in children over 1 year of age.

## Drinking Fluids

It is easy for a child with diarrhea to lose too much fluid and become
dehydrated. Lost fluids need to be replaced. For most children, drinking the
kinds of fluids they normally have should be enough.

Some water is OK. But too much water alone, at any age, can be harmful.

Other products, such as Pedialyte and Infalyte, may help keep a child well-
hydrated. These products can be bought at the supermarket or pharmacy.

Popsicles and Jell-O can be good sources of fluids, especially if your child
is vomiting. You can slowly get large amounts of fluids into children with
these products.

You may also give your child watered-down fruit juice or broth.

DO NOT use medicines to slow down your child's diarrhea without talking to a
doctor first. Ask your child's health care provider if using sports drinks is
OK.

## Diet for Children With Diarrhea

In many cases, you can continue feeding your child as usual. The diarrhea will
normally go away in time, without any changes or treatment. But while children
have diarrhea, they should:

    * Eat small meals throughout the day instead of 3 big meals.
    * Eat some salty foods, such as pretzels and soup. 

When necessary, changes in the diet may help. No specific diet is recommended.
But children often do better with bland foods. Give your child foods such as:

    * Baked or broiled beef, pork, chicken, fish, or turkey
    * Cooked eggs
    * Bananas and other fresh fruits
    * Applesauce
    * Bread products made from refined, white flour
    * Pasta or white rice
    * Cereals such as cream of wheat, farina, oatmeal, and cornflakes
    * Pancakes and waffles made with white flour
    * Cornbread, prepared or served with very little honey or syrup
    * Cooked vegetables, such as carrots, green beans, mushrooms, beets, asparagus tips, acorn squash, and peeled zucchini
    * Some desserts and snacks, such as Jell-O, popsicles, cakes, cookies, or sherbet
    * Baked potatoes 

In general, removing seeds and skins from these foods is best.

Use low-fat milk, cheese, or yogurt. If dairy products are making the diarrhea
worse or causing gas and bloating, your child may need to stop eating or
drinking dairy products for a few days.

Children should be allowed to take their time returning to their normal eating
habits. For some children, a return to their regular diet can also bring a
return of diarrhea. This is often due to mild problems the gut has while
absorbing regular foods.

## Things Your Child Should Avoid Eating or Drinking

Children should avoid certain kinds of foods when they have diarrhea,
including fried foods, greasy foods, processed or fast foods, pastries,
donuts, and sausage.

Avoid giving children apple juice and full-strength fruit juices, as they can
loosen stool.

Have your child limit or cut out milk and other dairy products if they are
making diarrhea worse or causing gas and bloating.

Your child should avoid fruits and vegetables that can cause gas, such as
broccoli, peppers, beans, peas, berries, prunes, chickpeas, green leafy
vegetables, and corn.

Your child should also avoid caffeine and carbonated drinks at this time.

When children are ready for regular foods again, try giving them:

    * Bananas
    * Crackers
    * Chicken
    * Pasta
    * Rice cereal 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's health care provider if your child has any of these
symptoms:

    * Much less activity than normal (not sitting up at all or not looking around)
    * Sunken eyes
    * Dry and sticky mouth
    * No tears when crying
    * Not urinated for 6 hours
    * Blood or mucus in the stool
    * Fever that does not go away
    * Stomach pain 

## References

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Children's Health
    * Diarrhea

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

