Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000862.htm    
                                Description: If you are looking for a trusted source of health education, look no further than your local hospital. From health videos to yoga classes, many hospitals offer information families need to stay healthy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hospitals as health educators

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000862.htm

# Hospitals as health educators

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you are looking for a trusted source of health education, look no further
than your local hospital. From health videos to yoga classes, many hospitals
offer information families need to stay healthy. You also may be able to find
ways to save money on health supplies and services.

## Classes and Programs

Many hospitals offer classes on various topics. They are taught by nurses,
doctors, and other health educators. Classes may include:

    * Prenatal care and breastfeeding
    * Parenting
    * Baby sign language
    * Baby yoga or massage
    * Babysitting courses for teens
    * Exercise classes like yoga, tai chi, qigong, Zumba, Pilates, dance, or strength training
    * Weight-loss programs
    * Nutrition programs
    * Self-defense classes
    * Meditation classes
    * CPR courses

Classes range from $15 to $20 per session, or more.

You can also find support groups for people with diabetes, long-term (chronic)
pain, and other health issues. These are often free of charge.

## Discounts

Many hospitals offer discounts to healthy activities in the area:

    * Biking, hiking, or walking tours
    * Museums
    * Fitness clubs
    * Farms
    * Festivals

Your hospital may offer discounts for:

    * Retail stores such as sporting goods, health food, and art stores
    * Acupuncture
    * Skin care
    * Eye care
    * Massage

## Health Libraries and Brochures

Many hospitals have a free online health library. The information is reviewed
by doctors, so you can trust it. You can find it on the hospital website,
usually under "Health Information."

Ask your health care provider for brochures on topics of interest. The
graphics and simple language can help you learn about options for your
condition.

## Lectures and Events

Many hospitals offer health fairs. Often the events cover:

    * Free blood pressure and other health screenings
    * Giveaways like stress balls
    * Health risk surveys 

Your hospital may sponsor talks open to the public. You can get the latest on
things such as heart disease, diabetes, or cancer treatments.

## Where to Find Information

Many hospitals have Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube accounts to share
information with the public. Through these portals, you can:

    * See videos of inspiring patient stories
    * Learn about new treatments and procedures
    * Follow the latest research updates
    * Get information about upcoming health fairs, classes, and events
    * Sign up for health e-newsletters to get information sent to you via email

## References

American Hospital Association website. Promoting healthy communities.
www.aha.org/ahia/promoting-healthy-communities. Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 12-03-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Health Literacy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

