Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000730.htm    
                                Description: Microgreens are the early leaves and stems of growing vegetables or herb plants. The seedling is only 7 to 14 days old, and 1 to 3 inches (3 to 8 cm) tall. Microgreens are older than sprouts (grown with    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends - microgreens

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000730.htm

# Healthy food trends - microgreens

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Microgreens are the early leaves and stems of growing vegetables or herb
plants. The seedling is only 7 to 14 days old, and 1 to 3 inches (3 to 8 cm)
tall. Microgreens are older than sprouts (grown with water in just a few
days), but younger than baby veggies, such as baby lettuce or baby spinach.

There are hundreds of options. Almost any vegetable or herb you can eat can be
enjoyed as a microgreen, such as lettuce, radish, basil, beets, celery,
cabbage, and kale.

Many people enjoy the tiny leaves of microgreens for their fresh taste, crisp
crunch, and bright colors.

## Why They are Good for you

Microgreens are packed with nutrition. Many of the tiny microgreens are 4 to 6
times higher in vitamins and antioxidants than their adult forms. Antioxidants
are substances that help to prevent cell damage.

The following microgreens have higher amounts of certain vitamins than their
adult forms:

    * Red cabbage -- Vitamin C
    * Green daikon radish -- Vitamin E
    * Cilantro -- Carotenoids (antioxidants that can turn into vitamin A)
    * Garnet amaranth -- Vitamin K

Eating lots of fruits and vegetables in any form is good for you. But
including microgreens in your diet can give you a nutrient boost in just a few
calories.

Although it is not well-proven, a healthy diet rich in fruits and vegetables
may reduce the risk for cancer and other chronic diseases. If you take blood-
thinning medicine, such as anticoagulant or antiplatelet drugs, you may need
to limit vitamin K foods. Vitamin K can affect how these medicines work.

## How They are Prepared

Microgreens can be eaten in several simple ways. Be sure to rinse them
thoroughly first.

    * Eat them raw. Add them to salads and drizzle with a little lemon juice or dressing. They are also very tasty on their own.
    * Garnish meals with raw microgreens. Add them to your breakfast plate. Top your fish, chicken, or baked potato with microgreens.
    * Add them to a sandwich or wrap. 
    * Add them to soups, stir fries, and pasta dishes. 
    * Add them to a fruit drink or cocktail. 

If you grow your own microgreens or purchase them in soil, snip the healthy
stems and leaves above the soil when they are 7 to 14 days old. Eat them
fresh, or store them in the refrigerator.

## Where to Find Microgreens

Microgreens are available at your local health food store or natural foods
market. Look near the lettuce for packages of greens with tiny stems and
leaves (just a couple inches, or 5 cm, in length). Check your local farmer's
market as well. Microgreen growing kits can be ordered online or found in some
kitchen stores.

The selections may change from time to time so keep an eye out for your
favorites.

They are a bit pricey, so you may want to try growing them in your kitchen
window. Once cut, they can last in the refrigerator for 5 to 7 days, sometimes
longer depending on the type.

## Alternative Names

Healthy snacks - microgreens; Weight loss - microgreens; Healthy diet -
microgreens; Wellness - microgreens

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Strategies to prevent
obesity and other chronic diseases: The CDC guide to strategies to increase
the consumption of fruits and vegetables. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services; 2011.
www.cdc.gov/obesity/downloads/fandv_2011_web_tag508.pdf. Accessed July 12,
2018.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Agricultural Research Service (ARS).
Specialty greens pack a nutritional punch. Agricultural Research Magazine
[serial online]. www.ars.usda.gov/news-events/news/research-
news/2014/specialty-greens-pack-a-nutritional-punch. Updated January 23, 2014.
Accessed July 12, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

