Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000728.htm    
                                Description: Flaxseeds are tiny brown or gold seeds that come from the flax plant. They have a very mild, nutty flavor and are rich in fiber and a variety of other nutrients. Ground flaxseeds are easiest to digest    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends -- flaxseeds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000728.htm

# Healthy food trends -- flaxseeds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Flaxseeds are tiny brown or gold seeds that come from the flax plant. They
have a very mild, nutty flavor and are rich in fiber and a variety of other
nutrients. Ground flaxseeds are easiest to digest and may provide more
nutrients than whole seeds, which can pass through your digestive system
undigested.

Flaxseed oil comes from pressed flax seeds.

## Why They are Good for you

Flaxseeds contain fiber, vitamins, minerals, protein, healthy plant-based
fats, and antioxidants that help prevent cell damage

Flaxseeds are a good source of soluble and insoluble fiber which help keep
your bowel movements regular and prevent constipation. Flaxseeds are also a
good source of:

    * Vitamins B1, B2, and B6
    * Copper
    * Phosphorus
    * Magnesium
    * Manganese 

These vitamins and minerals help support your energy, immune system, nervous
system, bones, blood, heartbeat, and many other bodily processes.

Flaxseeds are also rich in omega-3s and omega-6s which are essential fatty
acids (substances that your body needs to function). These substances are not
made in the body. You must get them from foods like seafood and flaxseeds.

Oils, such as canola and soybean oil, contain the same fatty acids as flax
oil. But flax oil contains more. Next to seafood, flax oil is one of the best
sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Eating flaxseeds can help boost your omega-3s,
though flax primarily provides ALA, not EPA and DHA.

Half of flaxseed calories come from fat. But this is healthy fat that helps
boost your "good cholesterol." The small amount would not prevent weight
control.

Consuming flaxseeds has been shown to reduce cholesterol levels. Researchers
are looking at whether consuming more of the essential fatty acids found in
flaxseeds will improve blood pressure, blood sugar, heart health, and other
areas.

If you plan to consume flaxseeds or flax oil on a regular basis, talk with
your doctor. It may affect how certain medicines work.

## How They are Prepared

Flaxseeds can be added to or sprinkled on almost any food. Some cereals, such
as raisin bran, now come with flaxseeds already mixed in.

Grinding whole seeds will help you get the most nutrients. To add flaxseeds to
your diet, add ground flax to:

    * Pancakes, French toast, or other baked goods mixes
    * Smoothies, yogurt, or cereals
    * Soups, salads, or pasta dishes
    * Also use in place of bread crumbs

## Where to Find Flaxseeds

Flaxseeds may be purchased online or at any health food store. Many major
grocery stores also carry flaxseeds in their natural or organic food sections.

Simply buy a bag or container of flaxseeds in whole, crushed, or milled form,
depending on the texture you like. You can also buy flaxseed oil.

Avoid raw and unripe flaxseeds.

## Alternative Names

Healthy food trends - flax meal; Healthy food trends - flax seeds; Healthy
food trends - linseeds; Healthy snacks - flaxseeds; Healthy diet - flaxseeds;
Wellness - flaxseeds

## References

Khalesi S, Irwin C, Schubert M. Flaxseed consumption may reduce blood
pressure: a systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled trials. _J
Nutr_. 2015;145(4):758-765. PMID: 25740909
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25740909.

Vannice G, Rasmussen H. Position of the academy of nutrition and dietetics:
dietary fatty acids for healthy adults. _J Acad Nutr Diet_.
2014;114(1):136-153. PMID: 24342605 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24342605.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

