Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000105.htm    
                                Description: Many fast foods are high in calories, fat, salt, and sugar. Use these tips to guide you in making healthier choices when eating in a fast food restaurant.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fast food tips

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000105.htm

# Fast food tips

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many fast foods are high in calories, fat, salt, and sugar. Use these tips to
guide you in making healthier choices when eating in a fast food restaurant.

## Can you eat Fast Food?

Fast foods are quick and easy substitutes for home cooking. But fast foods are
almost always high in calories, fat, sugar, and salt.

Some restaurants still use hydrogenated vegetable oils for frying. These oils
contain trans fats. These fats increase your risk for heart disease. Some
cities have banned or are trying to ban the use of these fats.

Now, many restaurants are preparing foods using other types of fat. Some offer
low-calorie choices instead.

Even with these changes, it is hard to eat healthy when you eat out often.
Many foods are still cooked with a lot of fat. Many restaurants do not offer
any lower-fat foods. Large portions also make it easy to overeat. And few
restaurants offer many fresh fruits and vegetables.

In general, people with high blood pressure, diabetes, and heart disease must
be very careful about eating fast food.

## When you go to a Fast Food Restaurant

Knowing the amount of calories, fat, and salt in fast foods can help you eat
healthier. Many restaurants now offer information about their food. This
information is much like the nutrition labels on the food that you buy. If it
is not posted in the restaurant, ask an employee for a copy.

In general, eat at places that offer salads, soups, and vegetables. In your
salads, avoid high-fat items. Dressing, bacon bits, and shredded cheese all
add fat and calories. Choose lettuce and assorted vegetables. Select low-fat
or fat-free salad dressings, vinegar, or lemon juice. Ask for salad dressing
on the side.

Healthier sandwiches include regular or junior size lean meats. Adding bacon,
cheese, or mayo will increase the fat and calories. Ask for vegetables
instead. Select whole-grain breads or bagels. Croissants and biscuits have a
lot of fat.

If you want a hamburger, get a single meat patty without cheese and sauce. Ask
for extra lettuce, tomatoes, and onions. Limit how many French fries you eat.
Ketchup has a lot of calories from sugar. Ask if you can get a side salad
instead of fries.

Look for meats, chicken, and fish that are roasted, grilled, baked, or
broiled. Avoid meats that are breaded or fried. If the dish you order comes
with a heavy sauce, ask for it on the side and use just a small amount.

With pizza, get less cheese. Also pick low-fat toppings, such as vegetables.
You can dab the pizza with a paper napkin to get rid of a lot of the fat from
the cheese.

Eat low-fat desserts. A rich dessert can add fun to a well-balanced diet. But
eat them only on special occasions.

Order smaller servings when you can. Split some fast-food items to reduce
calories and fat. Ask for a "doggy bag." You can also leave the extra food on
your plate.

Your food choices can teach your children how to eat healthy, too. Choosing a
variety of healthy foods and limiting portion size are key to a healthy diet
for anyone.

## Alternative Names

Obesity - fast food; Weight loss - fast food; High blood pressure - fast food;
Hypertension - fast food; Cholesterol - fast food; Hyperlipidemia - fast food

## Images

    * ![Fast food tips](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22911t.jpg)Fast food tips
    * ![Fast food](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19491t.jpg)Fast food

## References

Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed August 26, 2018.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to read food labels
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

