Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000725.htm    
                                Description: Brussels sprouts are small, round, green vegetables. They are most often about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 centimeters) wide. They belong to the cabbage family, which also includes kale, broccoli, collard    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends - Brussels sprouts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000725.htm

# Healthy food trends - Brussels sprouts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brussels sprouts are small, round, green vegetables. They are most often about
1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 centimeters) wide. They belong to the cabbage family,
which also includes kale, broccoli, collard greens, and cauliflower. In fact,
Brussels sprouts look like tiny cabbages, but they are milder in flavor.

Brussels sprouts are tender for eating when they are cooked; they may also be
served raw when shredded. They are full of nutrients and can be included in
many meals.

## Why They are Good for you

Brussels sprouts are full of vitamins, minerals, and fiber. You can count on
Brussels sprouts to support your immune system, blood and bone health, and
more. Eating just a few Brussels sprouts will give you plenty of vitamin C and
vitamin K.

Brussels sprouts rank high in antioxidants, just after kale and spinach.
Antioxidants are substances that can help you stay healthy by preventing cell
damage in the body. Just half cup (120 milliliters, mL) of cooked Brussels
sprouts will give you almost half of your daily recommended amount of vitamin
C.

Many other vitamins and minerals are in Brussels sprouts, including vitamin A,
potassium, and folate. Regularly eating Brussels sprouts and similar
vegetables may help to prevent many common cancers, although this is not
proven.

Brussels sprouts are very filling. The leaves are tightly packed and dense.
They are also low in calories, so they can help you maintain a healthy weight.
A cup (240 mL) of Brussels sprouts has about 3 grams (g) each of fiber and
protein and just 75 calories.

If you take the blood-thinning drug, warfarin (Coumadin), you may need to
limit your intake of foods that are high in vitamin K. Warfarin makes your
blood less likely to form clots. Vitamin K and foods containing vitamin K can
affect how blood-thinners work.

## How They are Prepared

Before you cook Brussels sprouts, be sure to wash and clean them. Cut off the
tough bottom and remove any outer, wilted leaves. When cleaning Brussels
sprouts before cooking, cut an X-shape in the bottom after you trim the tough
bottom. This will help them cook more evenly.

Brussels sprouts can be added to any meal and prepared in several simple ways,
such as:

    *  **Microwave** in a microwave-safe bowl with one quarter cup (60 mL) of water for about 4 minutes.
    *  **Steam** in a small pan on the stove with an inch (17 mL) of water. Cover and cook for 5 to 10 minutes.
    *  **Roast** with olive oil on a sheet pan for 25 to 30 minutes at 400Â°F (204Â°C). Add a little salt and pepper, or other flavorings like red pepper flakes.
    *  **SautÃ©** on stove top with garlic and olive oil. Add chicken, mushrooms, or beans for a hearty meal. Add whole wheat or high fiber pasta as well. 

Boiling Brussel sprouts is not recommended because much of the vitamin C is
lost with this cooking method.

## Where to Find Brussels Sprouts

Brussels sprouts are available year round in the grocery store produce
section. You will find them near the broccoli and other greens. Pick Brussels
sprouts that are firm and bright green. Avoid Brussels sprouts that are soft
or yellowing.

Put Brussels sprouts on your weekly shopping list. They will last in the
refrigerator for at least 3 to 5 days.

## Recipe

There are many delicious Brussel sprouts recipes. Here is one to try.

 **Ingredients**

    * Half pound (227 g) Brussels sprouts
    * Half cup (120 mL) chicken broth, low-sodium
    * One teaspoon (5 mL) lemon juice
    * One teaspoon (5 mL) brown mustard (spicy)
    * One teaspoon (5 mL) thyme (dried)
    * Half cup (120 g) mushroom (sliced) 

**Instructions**

    1. Trim Brussels sprouts and cut in half. Steam until tender, for 6 to 10 minutes, or microwave on high for 3 to 4 minutes.
    2. In a non-stick pot, bring the broth to a boil.
    3. Mix in the lemon juice, mustard, and thyme. Add the mushrooms.
    4. Boil until the broth is reduced by half, for 5 to 8 minutes.
    5. Add the Brussels sprouts (or other cooked vegetables).
    6. Toss well to coat with the sauce. 

Source: _United States Department of Agriculture_

## Alternative Names

Healthy food trends - Brussels cabbage; Healthy snacks - brussels sprouts;
Weight loss - brussels sprouts; Healthy diet - brussels sprouts; Wellness -
brussels sprouts

## References

U.S. Department of Agriculture website. Seasonal produce guide: Brussels
sprouts. snaped.fns.usda.gov/nutrition-through-seasons/seasonal-
produce/brussels-sprouts. Updated July 6, 2018. Accessed July 12, 2018.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and U.S. Department of
Agriculture website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 12, 2018.  

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

