Link: https://medlineplus.gov/infectiousarthritis.html    
                                Description: Infectious or septic arthritis is a bacterial infection of the joint. Learn why people get infectious arthritis, tests needed and how it is treated.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Infectious Arthritis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/infectiousarthritis.html

#  Infectious Arthritis

Also called: Septic arthritis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Most kinds of arthritis cause pain and swelling in your joints. Joints are
places where two bones meet, such as your elbow or knee. Infectious arthritis
is an infection in the joint. The infection comes from a bacterial, viral, or
fungal infection that spreads from another part of the body. Symptoms of
infectious arthritis include

    * Intense pain in the joint
    * Joint redness and swelling
    * Chills and fever
    * Inability to move the area with the infected joint

One type of infectious arthritis is reactive arthritis. The reaction is to an
infection somewhere else in your body. The joint is usually the knee, ankle,
or toe. Sometimes, reactive arthritis is set off by an infection in the
bladder, or in the urethra, which carries urine out of the body. In women, an
infection in the vagina can cause the reaction. For both men and women, it can
start with bacteria passed on during sex. Another form of reactive arthritis
starts with eating food or handling something that has bacteria on it.

To diagnose infectious arthritis, your health care provider may do tests of
your blood, urine, and joint fluid. Treatment includes medicines and sometimes
surgery.

## Start Here

    * Septic Arthritis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Blood Culture Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Bone X-Ray (Radiography) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * HLA-B27 Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * MRI of the Musculoskeletal System (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Reactive Arthritis Diagnosis (Spondylitis Association of America)
    * Synovial Fluid Analysis (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Joint Injection/Aspiration (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * HCV and Rheumatic Disease (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Reactive Arthritis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Arthritis, Infectious ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effective treatment of single-stage revision using intra-articular antibiotic infusion for culture-negative...
    * Article: Infection in Arthroplasty: The Basic Science of Bacterial Biofilms in Its...
    * Article: Management of Periprosthetic Joint Infection: What Has Happened Over the Last...
    * Infectious Arthritis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Arthritis Foundation: Local Office Directory (Arthritis Foundation)
    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Joint Aspiration (Arthrocentesis) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Toxic Synovitis (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Fungal arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * HLA-B27 antigen (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Reactive arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Septic arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Viral arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Infectious
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousArthritis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Culture - joint fluid
    * Fungal arthritis
    * Gonococcal arthritis
    * HLA-B27 antigen
    * Reactive arthritis
    * Septic arthritis
    * Viral arthritis

## Related Health Topics

    * Arthritis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Infectious Arthritis is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

