Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000035.htm    
                                Description: If you are sick or undergoing cancer treatment, you may not feel like eating. But it is important to get enough protein and calories so you do not lose too much weight. Eating well can help you handle    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eating extra calories when sick - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000035.htm

# Eating extra calories when sick - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you are sick or undergoing cancer treatment, you may not feel like eating.
But it is important to get enough protein and calories so you do not lose too
much weight. Eating well can help you handle your illness and the side effects
of treatment better.

## Self-care

Change your eating habits to get more calories.

    * Eat when you are hungry, not just at mealtimes.
    * Eat 5 or 6 small meals a day instead of 3 large ones.
    * Keep healthy snacks handy.
    * Don't fill up on liquids before or during your meals.
    * Ask your health care provider if you can sometimes have a glass of wine or beer with one of your meals. It may make you feel like eating more. 

Ask others to prepare food for you. You may feel like eating, but you might
not have enough energy to cook.

Make eating pleasant.

    * Use soft lighting and play relaxing music.
    * Eat with family or friends.
    * Listen to the radio.
    * Try new recipes or new foods. 

When you feel up to it, make some simple meals and freeze them to eat later.
Ask your provider about "Meals on Wheels" or other programs that bring food to
your house.

## Ways to add Calories to Your Food

You can add calories to your food by doing the following:

    * Ask your provider first if it is OK to do so.
    * Add butter or margarine to foods when you are cooking, or put them on foods that are already cooked.
    * Add cream sauce or melt cheese over vegetables.
    * Eat peanut butter sandwiches, or put peanut butter on vegetables or fruits, such as carrots or apples.
    * Mix whole milk or half-and-half with canned soups.
    * Add protein supplements to yogurt, milkshakes, fruit smoothies, or pudding.
    * Drink milkshakes between meals.
    * Add honey to juices. 

Ask your provider about liquid nutrition drinks.

Also ask your provider about any medicines that can stimulate your appetite to
help you eat.

## Alternative Names

Getting more calories - adults; Chemotherapy - calories; Transplant -
calories; Cancer treatment - calories

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Nutrition in cancer care (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-
effects/appetite-loss/nutrition-hp-pdq. Updated November 17, 2017. Accessed
February 27, 2018.

Thompson KL, Elliott L, Fuchs-Tarlovsky V, Levin RM, Voss AC, Piemonte T.
Oncology evidence-based nutrition practice guideline for adults. _J Acad Nutr
Diet_. 2017;117(2):297-310.e47. PMID: 27436529
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27436529.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Dementia
    * Mastectomy
    * Parkinson disease
    * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal radiation - discharge
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Brain radiation - discharge
    * Breast radiation - discharge
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Pelvic radiation - discharge
    * Preventing pressure ulcers
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

