Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000729.htm    
                                Description: Kale is a leafy, dark green vegetable (sometimes with purple). It is full of nutrients and flavor. Kale belongs to the same family as broccoli, collard greens, cabbage, and cauliflower. All of these vegetables    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends - kale

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000729.htm

# Healthy food trends - kale

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kale is a leafy, dark green vegetable (sometimes with purple). It is full of
nutrients and flavor. Kale belongs to the same family as broccoli, collard
greens, cabbage, and cauliflower. All of these vegetables are full of vitamins
and minerals.

Kale has become popular as one of the healthiest and tastiest green vegetables
you can eat. Its hearty flavor can be enjoyed in many ways.

## Why it is Good for you

Kale is full of vitamins and minerals, including:

    * Vitamin A
    * Vitamin C
    * Vitamin K

If you take blood-thinning medicine (such as anticoagulant or antiplatelet
drugs), you may need to limit vitamin K foods. Vitamin K can affect how these
medicines work.

Kale is rich in, calcium, potassium, and has a good amount of fiber to help
keep your bowel movements regular. Kale contains antioxidants that help
prevent cell damage and may also help protect against cancer.

You can also count on kale and its nutrients to help support the health of
your eyes, immune system, and heart.

Kale is filling and low in calories. So eating it can help you maintain a
healthy weight. Two cups (500 milliliters, mL) of raw kale have approximately
1 gram (g) each of fiber and protein for just 16 calories.

## How it is Prepared

Kale can be prepared in several simple ways.

    *  **Eat it raw.** But be sure to wash it first. Add a little lemon juice or dressing, and perhaps other veggies to make a salad. Rub lemon juice or dressing into the leaves then allow them to wilt a bit before serving.
    *  **Add it to a smoothie.** Tear off a handful, wash it, and add it to your next smoothie of fruits, vegetables, and yogurt.
    *  **Add it to soups, stir fries, or pasta dishes.** You can add a bunch to almost any cooked meal.
    *  **Steam it in water.** Add a little salt and pepper, or other flavorings like red pepper flakes.
    *  **SautÃ© it** on the stove top with garlic and olive oil. Add chicken, mushrooms, or beans for a hearty meal.
    *  **Roast it** in the oven for delicious kale chips. Toss freshly washed and dried kale strips with olive oil, salt, and pepper using your hands. Arrange in single layers on a roasting pan. Roast in the oven at 275Â°F (135Â°C) for about 20 minutes or so until crisp, but not brown. 

Often, children take to raw vegetables rather than cooked. So give raw kale a
try. Adding kale to smoothies can also help you get kids to eat their veggies.

## Where to Find Kale

Kale is available in the produce section of the grocery store year round. You
will find it near the broccoli and other dark green veggies. It may come in
bunches of long stiff leaves, baby leaves, or sprouts. The leaves can be flat
or curly. Avoid kale that is wilting or yellowing. Kale will stay fresh in the
refrigerator for 5 to 7 days.

## Recipe

There are many delicious recipes you can make with kale. Here is one to try.

### Chicken Vegetable Soup with Kale

 **Ingredients**

    * Two teaspoons (10 mL) vegetable oil
    * Half cup (120 mL) onion (chopped)
    * Half carrot (chopped)
    * One teaspoon (5 mL) thyme (ground)
    * Two garlic cloves (minced)
    * Two cups (480 mL) water or chicken broth
    * Three fourth cup (180 mL) tomatoes (diced)
    * One cup (240 mL) chicken; cooked, skinned, and cubed
    * Half cup (120 mL) brown or white rice (cooked)
    * One cup (240 mL) kale (chopped)

 **Instructions**

    1. Heat oil in a medium sauce pan. Add onion and carrot. SautÃ© until vegetables are tender -- about 5 to 8 minutes.
    2. Add thyme and garlic. SautÃ© for one more minute.
    3. Add water or broth, tomatoes, cooked rice, chicken and kale.
    4. Simmer for 5 to 10 more minutes. 

Source: _Nutrition.gov_

## Alternative Names

Healthy food trends - borecole; Healthy snacks - kale; Weight loss - kale;
Healthy diet - kale; Wellness - kale

## References

Marchand LR, Stewart JA. Breast cancer. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 12, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

