Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000727.htm    
                                Description: Chia seeds are tiny, brown, black or white seeds. They are almost as small as poppy seeds. They come from a plant in the mint family. Chia seeds deliver several important nutrients in just a few calories    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends -- chia seeds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000727.htm

# Healthy food trends -- chia seeds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chia seeds are tiny, brown, black or white seeds. They are almost as small as
poppy seeds. They come from a plant in the mint family. Chia seeds deliver
several important nutrients in just a few calories and a small package.

You can eat this nutty-flavored seed in many ways.

## Why They are Good for you

Chia seeds are rich in fiber, healthy fats, and antioxidants that help prevent
cell damage.

Chia seeds are a good source of insoluble fiber. The seeds expand quite a bit
and form a gel when they come into contact with water. This gel adds bulk to
your stool, which keeps bowel movements regular and helps prevent
constipation. The added bulk also may help you feel fuller and so you eat
less.

Just 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters, mL) of chia seeds will give you 19% of your
recommended daily fiber.

Chia seeds are also rich in essential fatty acids, omega-3 and omega-6.
Essential fatty acids are fatty substances that your body needs to function.
They are not made in the body, and you must get them from foods.

The oil in chia seeds contains higher amounts of essential fatty acids
compared to other oils, even flax seed (linseed) oil.

Researchers are looking at whether consuming more of the fatty acids found in
chia seeds can improve blood pressure, heart health, blood sugar, or provide
other benefits.

## How They are Prepared

Chia seeds can be added or sprinkled on almost anything. There is no
preparation needed -- unlike flax seed, chia seeds do not need to be ground
for maximal benefit. To add chia seeds to your diet:

    * Add them to your bread crumbs.
    * Sprinkle them on salads.
    * Add them to your drinks, smoothies, yogurt, or oatmeal.
    * Add them to soups, salads, or pasta dishes.
    * Add them to your pancakes, French toast, or baked goods mix. 

You can also grind chia seeds into a paste and add the paste to your dough or
other mixes before cooking or baking.

## Where to Find Chia Seeds

Chia seeds may be purchased at any health food store, or online. Major grocery
stores may also carry chia seeds in the natural or organic food aisle. Simply
buy a bag of chia seeds, milled or whole.

## Alternative Names

Healthy food trends - sage; Healthy food trends - salvia; Healthy snacks -
Chia seeds; Weight loss - Chia seeds; Healthy diet - Chia seeds; Wellness -
Chia seeds

## References

Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website. What are chia seeds?
www.eatright.org/resource/food/vitamins-and-supplements/nutrient-rich-
foods/what-are-chia-seeds. Updated March 23, 2018. Accessed July 12, 2018.

Vannice G, Rasmussen H. Position of the academy of nutrition and dietetics:
dietary fatty acids for healthy adults. _J Acad Nutr Diet_.
2014;114(1):136-153. PMID: 24342605 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24342605.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

