Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000731.htm    
                                Description: Quinoa (pronounced &quot;keen-wah&quot;) is a hearty, protein-rich seed, considered by many to be a whole grain. A &quot;whole grain&quot; contains all of the original parts of the grain or seed, making it a healthier and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends -- quinoa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000731.htm

# Healthy food trends -- quinoa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Quinoa (pronounced "keen-wah") is a hearty, protein-rich seed, considered by
many to be a whole grain. A "whole grain" contains all of the original parts
of the grain or seed, making it a healthier and more complete food. Quinoa is
in the same plant family with Swiss chard, spinach, and sugar beets.

Quinoa is gluten-free, and the flour is a good substitute for wheat flour.
Mild and nutty flavored, quinoa can be enjoyed in many ways.

## Why it is Good for you

Quinoa is rich in protein. It has almost twice the amount of protein found in
oats, and a bit more fiber and iron. Quinoa is a complete protein.

You need protein in your diet to help your body repair cells and make new
ones. Protein is also important for growth and development during childhood,
adolescence, and pregnancy. Quinoa's high protein content makes it a good
option in place of rice and other high-carbohydrate, low-protein grains,
especially for people with diabetes.

Quinoa is also a good source of potassium, which you need for muscle and
protein building, maintaining a regular heartbeat, and many other bodily
functions. It offers many other vitamins and minerals as well.

Quinoa has several antioxidants, like those found in berries. Antioxidants
help prevent cell damage. This is important for healing, prevention of
disease, and aging.

If you have celiac disease, or follow a gluten-free diet, quinoa is a great
option. It does not contain gluten.

Quinoa contains heart-healthy fats that can help boost your "good
cholesterol." It is filling and packs a nutritious punch in a small amount.

## How it is Prepared

Quinoa can be cooked and eaten in many ways. You will need to simmer it in
water like rice. Add 1 part quinoa to 2 parts water or stock and simmer until
tender, for about 15 minutes.

To add quinoa to your diet:

    * Add cooked quinoa to your salad, soups, or pasta dishes. 
    * Make it a side dish. Think of quinoa as your new rice. Combine cooked quinoa with herbs, beans, vegetables, and seasonings and serve with your meal. Add a healthy protein like chicken or fish if you choose.
    * Use quinoa flour instead of wheat flour in your muffins, pancakes, cookies, or any time you bake. 

When quinoa is finished cooking, it looks like curly threads are around each
grain. Make a big batch of cooked quinoa and store it in the refrigerator for
up to a week. Take it out for several meals as you need it.

## Where to Find Quinoa

Quinoa may be purchased online or at any health food store. Major grocery
stores may also carry bags of quinoa in their natural or organic food
sections. You can also purchase quinoa flour, pasta, and cereal products.

There are over one hundred varieties of quinoa. But you will most likely see
yellow/ivory, red, or black quinoa in stores.

Uncooked, you can store it in your pantry for several months. Use an airtight
container or bag for storage.

## Recipe

There are many delicious recipes using quinoa. Here is one you can try.

 **Quinoa-Stuffed Tomatoes**

 _(Yields 4 servings. Serving size: 1 tomato, Â¾ cup (180 milliliters, mL)
stuffing)_

 **Ingredients**

    * 4 medium (2Â½ inches, or 6 centimeters) tomatoes, rinsed
    * 1 tablespoon (tbsp), or 15 mL, olive oil
    * 2 tbsp (30 mL) red onions, peeled and chopped
    * 1 cup (240 mL) cooked mixed vegetables -- such as peppers, corn, carrots, or peas (leftover friendly)
    * 1 cup (240 mL) quinoa, rinsed*
    * 1 cup (240 mL) low-sodium chicken broth
    * Â½ ripe avocado, peeled and diced (see tip)
    * Â¼ teaspoon (1 mL) ground black pepper
    * 1 tbsp (15 mL) fresh parsley, rinsed, dried, and chopped (or 1 teaspoon, or 5 mL, dried) 

**Instructions**

    1. Preheat oven to 350ÂºF (176.6ÂºC).
    2. Cut off the tops of the tomatoes and hollow out the insides. (The pulp can be saved for use in tomato soup or sauce, or salsa.) Set tomatoes aside.
    3. Heat oil in a saucepan over medium-high heat. Add onions, and cook until they begin to soften, for about 1 to 2 minutes.
    4. Add cooked vegetables, and heat through, about another 1 to 2 minutes.
    5. Add quinoa, and cook gently until it smells good, about 2 minutes.
    6. Add chicken broth and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and cover the pan. Cook until the quinoa has absorbed all of the liquid and is fully cooked, about 7 to 10 minutes.
    7. When the quinoa is cooked, remove the lid and gently fluff quinoa with a fork. Gently mix in the avocado, pepper, and parsley.
    8. Carefully stuff about Â¾ cup (180 mL) of quinoa into each tomato.
    9. Place tomatoes on a baking sheet, and bake for about 15 to 20 minutes, or until tomatoes are hot throughout (tomatoes may be stuffed in advance and baked later).
    10. Serve immediately. 

**Nutrition facts**

    * Calories: 299
    * Total fat: 10 g
    * Saturated fat: 1 g
    * Sodium: 64 mg
    * Total fiber: 8 g
    * Protein: 10 g
    * Carbohydrates: 46 g 

Source: _National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Deliciously healthy family
meals._healthyeating.nhlbi.nih.gov/pdfs/KTB_Family_Cookbook_2010.pdf _._

## Alternative Names

Healthy food trends - goosefoot; Healthy snacks - quinoa; Weight loss -
quinoa; Healthy diet - quinoa; Wellness - quinoa

## References

van der Kamp JW, Poutanen K, Seal CJ, Richardson DP. The HEALTHGRAIN
definition of 'whole grain'. _Food Nutr Res_. 2014;58. PMID: 24505218
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24505218.

Zevallos VF, Herencia LI, Chang F, Donnelly S, Ellis HJ, Ciclitira PJ.
Gastrointestinal effects of eating quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa Willd.) in
celiac patients. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2014;109(2):270-278. PMID: 24445568
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24445568.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

