Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000107.htm    
                                Description: Food labels give you information about the calories, number of servings, and nutrient content of packaged foods. Reading the labels can help you make healthy choices when you shop.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to read food labels

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000107.htm

# How to read food labels

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Food labels give you information about the calories, number of servings, and
nutrient content of packaged foods. Reading the labels can help you make
healthy choices when you shop.

## About Food Labels

Food labels tell you the nutrition facts about the foods you buy. Use the food
labels to help you choose healthier foods.

## What to Look for

Always check the serving size first. All the information on the label is based
on the serving size. Many packages contain more than 1 serving.

For example, the serving size for spaghetti is most often 2 ounces (56 grams)
uncooked, or 1 cup (0.24 liters) cooked. If you eat 2 cups (0.48 liters) at a
meal, you are eating 2 servings. That is 2 times the amount of the calories,
fats, and other items listed on the label.

Calorie information tells you the number of calories in 1 serving. Adjust the
number of calories if you eat smaller or larger portions. This number helps
determine how foods affect your weight.

The total carbs (carbohydrates) are listed in bold letters to stand out and
are measured in grams (g). Sugar, starch, and dietary fiber make up the total
carbs on the label. Sugar is listed separately. All of these carbs except
fiber can raise your blood sugar.

If you have diabetes and count carbs, you can subtract the number of grams of
dietary fiber from the total carb number.

Dietary fiber is listed just below total carbs. Buy foods with at least 3 to 4
grams of fiber per serving. Whole-grain breads, fruits and vegetables, and
beans and legumes are high in fiber.

![Food Label Guide for Whole Wheat
Bread](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19343.jpg)

Check the total fat in 1 serving. Pay special attention to the amount of
saturated fat in 1 serving.

Choose foods that are low in saturated fat. For example, drink skim or 1% milk
instead of 2% or whole milk. Skim milk has only a trace of saturated fat.
Whole milk has 5 grams of this fat per serving.

Fish is much lower in saturated fat than beef. Three ounces (84 grams) of fish
has less than 1 gram of this fat. Three ounces (84 grams) of hamburger has
more than 5 grams.

If a food has less than 0.5 grams of saturated fat in the serving size on the
label, the food maker can say it contains no saturated fat. Remember this if
you eat more than 1 serving.

You should also pay attention to trans fats on any food label. These fats
raise "bad" cholesterol and lower your "good" cholesterol.

These fats are mostly found in snack foods and desserts. Many fast food
restaurants use trans fats for frying.

If a food has these fats, the amount will be listed on the label under total
fat. They are measured in grams. Look for foods that have no trans fats or are
low in them (1 gram or less).

![Food Label Guide for
Candy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19342.jpg)

Sodium is the main ingredient of salt. This number is important for people who
are trying to get less salt in their diet. If a label says that a food has 100
mg of sodium, this means it has about 250 mg of salt. You should eat no more
than 2,300 mg of sodium per day. Ask your health care provider if you should
have even less.

The % daily value is included on the label as a guide.

The percentage for each item on the label is based on eating 2,000 calories a
day. Your goals will be different if you eat more or fewer calories a day. A
dietitian or your provider can help you set your own nutrition goals.

## Alternative Names

Nutrition - reading food labels; Diabetes - reading food labels; Hypertension
- reading food labels; Fats - reading food labels; Cholesterol - reading food
labels; Weight loss - reading food labels; Obesity - reading food labels

## Images

    * ![Food Label Guide for Candy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19342t.jpg)Food label guide for candy
    * ![Food Label Guide for Whole Wheat Bread](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19343t.jpg)Food label guide for whole wheat bread

## References

Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed August 26, 2018.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Elijovich F, Weinberger MH, Anderson CA, et al. Salt sensitivity of blood
pressure: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association.
_Hypertension_. 2016;68(3):e7-e46. PMID: 27443572
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27443572.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

## Read More

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Obesity
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cirrhosis - discharge
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Daily bowel care program
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
    * Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor 
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * High-fiber foods
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Food Labeling
    * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet
    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

