Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000726.htm    
                                Description: Legumes are large, fleshy, colorful plant seeds. Beans, peas, and lentils are all types of legumes. Vegetables such as beans and other legumes are an important source of protein. They are a key food in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy food trends - beans and legumes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000726.htm

# Healthy food trends - beans and legumes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Legumes are large, fleshy, colorful plant seeds. Beans, peas, and lentils are
all types of legumes. Vegetables such as beans and other legumes are an
important source of protein. They are a key food in healthy diets and have
many benefits.

Beans, lentils, and peas come in many options, cost little money, and are easy
to find. Soft and earthy-flavored, legumes can be eaten in many ways.

## Types of Legumes

Beans:

    * Adzuki
    * Black beans
    * Black-eyed peas (actually a bean)
    * Cannellini
    * Cranberry
    * Garbanzo (chick peas)
    * Great Northern
    * Kidney
    * Lima
    * Mung
    * Navy
    * Pinto 

Other legumes:

    * Lentils
    * Peas
    * Soy beans (edamame) 

## Why They are Good for you

Beans and legumes are rich in plant protein, fiber, B-vitamins, iron, folate,
calcium, potassium, phosphorus, and zinc. Most beans are also low in fat.

Legumes are similar to meat in nutrients, but with lower iron levels and no
saturated fats. The high protein in legumes make them a great option in place
of meat and dairy products. Vegetarians often substitute legumes for meat.

Legumes are a great source of fiber and may help you have regular bowel
movements. Just 1 cup (240 mL) of cooked black beans will give you 15 grams
(g) of fiber, which is about half of the recommended daily amount for adults.

Legumes are packed with nutrients. They are low in calories, but make you feel
full. The body uses the carbohydrates in legumes slowly, over time, providing
steady energy for the body, brain, and nervous system. Eating more legumes as
part of a healthy diet can help lower blood sugar, blood pressure, heart rate,
and other heart disease and diabetes risks.

Beans and legumes contain antioxidants that help prevent cell damage and fight
disease and aging. The fiber and other nutrients benefit the digestive system,
and may even help to prevent digestive cancers.

## How They are Prepared

Legumes can be added to any meal, for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Once
cooked, they can be eaten warm or cold.

Most dry beans (except peas and lentils) will need to be rinsed, soaked, and
cooked.

    * Rinse beans in cold water and pick out any pebbles or stems.
    * Cover the beans with 3 times their amount in water.
    * Soak for 6 hours. 

You can also bring dried beans to a boil, take the pan off the burner, and let
them soak for 2 hours. Soaking overnight or after boiling makes them less
likely to give you gas.

To cook your beans:

    * Drain and add fresh water.
    * Cook the beans according to the instructions on your package. 

To add cooked or canned beans to your diet:

    * Add them to salsas, soups, salads, tacos, burritos, chili, or pasta dishes.
    * Include them as a side dish at breakfast, lunch, or dinner.
    * Mash them up for dips and spreads.
    * Use bean flour to bake them. 

To reduce the gas caused by eating beans:

    * Always soak dried beans.
    * If you do not eat a lot of beans, gradually add them to your diet. This helps your body get used to the extra fiber.
    * Chew them well. 

## Where to Find Legumes

Legumes may be purchased at any grocery store or online. They DO NOT cost a
lot of money and can be stored for a very long time. They come in bags (dried
beans), cans (already cooked), or jars.

## Recipe

There are many delicious recipes using beans. Here is one you can try.

 **Ingredients**

    * Two cans low-sodium black beans (15 oz.), or 425 g
    * Half medium onion
    * Two garlic cloves
    * Two tablespoons (30 mL) vegetable oil
    * Half teaspoon (2.5 mL) cumin (ground)
    * Half teaspoon (2.5 mL) salt
    * One quarter teaspoon (1.2 mL) oregano (fresh or dried) 

**Instructions**

    1. Carefully drain the juice from 1 can of black beans. Pour the drained black beans into a bowl. Use a potato masher to mash the beans until they are no longer whole. Set the mashed beans aside.
    2. Chop the onion into one quarter inch pieces. Set the onions aside.
    3. Peel the garlic cloves and mince them finely. Set the garlic aside.
    4. In a medium sauce pan, heat your cooking oil over medium high heat. Add the onions and sautÃ© for 1 to 2 minutes.
    5. Stir in the garlic and cumin and cook for 30 seconds more.
    6. Stir in the mashed black beans and the second can of black beans, including the juice.
    7. When the beans begin to boil, reduce the heat to low, stir in the salt and oregano and simmer for 10 minutes, uncovered. 

Source: _United States Department of Agriculture_

## Alternative Names

Healthy food trends - pulses; Healthy eating - beans and legumes; Weight loss
- beans and legumes; Healthy diet - beans and legumes; Wellness - beans and
legumes

## References

Fechner A, Fenske K, Jahreis G. Effects of legume kernel fibres and citrus
fibre on putative risk factors for colorectal cancer: a randomised, double-
blind, crossover human intervention trial. _Nutri J_. 2013;12:101. PMID:
24060277 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24060277.

Jenkins D, Kendall C, Augustin L, et al. Effect of legumes as part of a low
glycemic index diet on glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors in
type 2 diabetes mellitus. _Arch Intern Med_. 2012;172(21):1653-1660. PMID:
23089999 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23089999.

United States Department of Agriculture: Choose My Plate.gov website. Beans
and peas are unique foods. www.choosemyplate.gov/vegetables-beans-and-peas.
Updated January 12, 2016. Accessed July 12, 2018.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and U.S. Department of
Agriculture website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 12, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

