Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007204.htm    
                                Description: Humans have been eating soy beans for almost 5000 years. The soybean is high in protein. The quality of protein from soy equals that of protein from animal foods.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Soy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007204.htm

# Soy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Humans have been eating soy beans for almost 5000 years. The soybean is high
in protein. The quality of protein from soy equals that of protein from animal
foods.

## Function

Soy in your diet can lower cholesterol. Many research studies support this
claim. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) agrees that 25 grams per
day of soy protein may reduce the risk forÂ heart disease. Health benefits of
soy products may be due to their high levels of polyunsaturated fats, fiber,
minerals, vitamins, and low saturated fat content.

Isoflavones that occur naturally in soy product may play a part in preventing
some hormone-related cancers. Eating a diet that has a moderate amount of soy
prior to adulthood may lower the risk forÂ breast and ovarian cancer in women.
However, the intake of soy in women who are postmenopausal or already have
cancer remains unclear. Whole soy in products like tofu, soy milk and edamame
is preferable to processed soy such as the soy protein isolates that are found
in many snack products.

The benefit of using isoflavone supplements in food or pills in the prevention
or treatment of cancer has not been proven. The ability of these supplements
to ease menopause symptoms such as hot flashes also is unproven.

## Food Sources

Not all soy products contain the same amount of protein. The following list
ranks the protein content of some common soy foods. Highest protein items are
at the top of the list.

    * Soy protein isolate (added to many soy food products, including soy sausage patties and soybean burgers)
    * Soy flour
    * Whole soybeans
    * Tempeh
    * Tofu
    * Soy milk 

To find out about protein content in a soy-based food:

    * Check the Nutrition Facts label to see the grams of protein per serving.
    * Also look at the list of ingredients. If a product contains isolated soy protein (or soy protein isolate), the protein content should be fairly high. 

**Note:** There is a difference between soy supplements in the form of tablets
or capsules and soy protein products. Most soy supplements are made of
concentrated soy isoflavones. These substances may help relieve symptoms of
menopause. However, there is not enough evidence to support soy isoflavones
for other health purposes, such as lowering cholesterol.

## Side Effects

People who are not allergic to soy do not have serious side effects from
eating these foods. Mild side effects of consuming products with added soy
protein isolate may include stomach aches, constipation, and diarrhea.

## Recommendations

In adults, 25 grams per day of soy protein may reduce the risk for heart
disease.

Soy foods and soy-based infant formula are often used for children with dairy
allergies. No studies have shown whether isolated soy protein or isoflavone
supplements are useful or safe for this group. Therefore, isolated soy
products are not recommended for children at this time.

## Images

    * ![Soy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21741t.jpg)Soy

## References

Applegate CC, Rowles JL, Ranard KM, Jeon S, Erdman JW. Soy consumption and the
risk of prostate cancer: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis.
_Nutrients_. 2018;10(1). pii: E40. PMID: 29300347
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29300347.

Aronson JK. Phytoestrogens. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:755-757.

Eilat-Adar S, Sinai T, Yosefy C, Henkin Y. Nutritional recommendations for
cardiovascular disease prevention. _Nutrients_. 2013;5(9):3646-3683. PMID:
24067391 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24067391.

Nowak-Wegrzyn A, Sampson HA, Sicherer SH. Food allergy and adverse reactions
to foods. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson
KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 176.

Nonhormonal management of menopause-associated vasomotor symptoms: 2015
position statement of The North American Menopause Society. _Menopause_.
2015;22(11):1155-1172; quiz 1173-1174. PMID: 26382310
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26382310.

Qiu S, Jiang C. Soy and isoflavones consumption and breast cancer survival and
recurrence: a systematic review and meta-analysis. _Eur J Nutr_.
2018:1853-1854. PMID: 30382332 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30382332.

Sacks FM, Lichtenstein A; American Heart Association Nutrition Committee, et
al. Soy protein, isoflavones, and cardiovascular health: an American Heart
Association Science Advisory for professionals from the Nutrition Committee.
_Circulation_. 2006;113(7):1034-1044. PMID: 16418439
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16418439.

Taku K, Melby MK, Kronenberg F, Kurzer MS, Messina M. Extracted or synthesized
soybean isoflavones reduce menopausal hot flash frequency and severity:
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
_Menopause_. 2012;19(7):776-790. PMID: 22433977
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22433977.

You J, Sun Y, Bo Y, et al. The association between dietary isoflavones intake
and gastric cancer risk: a meta-analysis of epidemiological studies. _BMC
Public Health_. 2018;18(1):510. PMID: 29665798
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29665798.

## Review Date 4/30/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Nutrition_thumb.jpg)Nutrition
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

