Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000336.htm    
                                Description: A key step for losing weight, keeping the weight off, and staying healthy is learning how to buy the right foods at the store. This will ensure you have healthy choices at home. Avoid regularly bringing    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy grocery shopping

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000336.htm

# Healthy grocery shopping

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A key step for losing weight, keeping the weight off, and staying healthy is
learning how to buy the right foods at the store. This will ensure you have
healthy choices at home. Avoid regularly bringing chips or cookies, into the
home. Having to go out to buy an unhealthy treat gives you more time to make a
conscious decision about eating that food. It is fine to include these foods
in your diet, but you don't want to eat them mindlessly.

## Smart Shopping

If you buy large amounts or bulk packages of a snack food, divide it into
smaller portion sizes and store what you will not use right away.

 **PROTEIN**

When you buy protein, choose:

    * Lean ground turkey or chicken and skinless turkey or chicken breasts.
    * Lean meat, such as bison (buffalo) and lean cuts of pork and beef (such as round, top sirloin, and tenderloin). Look for ground meats that are at least 97% lean.
    * Fish, such as salmon, whitefish, sardines, herring, tilapia, and cod.
    * Low-fat or nonfat dairy products.
    * Eggs.
    * Legumes, such as pinto beans, black beans, kidney beans, lentils, and garbanzo beans. Canned beans are convenient but if you have the time to prepare them from scratch, dried beans are much cheaper. Low for low-sodium canned goods.
    * Soy proteins, such as tofu or tempeh. 

**FRUITS AND VEGETABLES**

Buy plenty of fruits and vegetables. They will fill you up and provide
vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients your body needs. Some buying tips:

    * One medium-sized apple has only 72 calories.
    * 1 cup (130 gram) carrots has only 45 calories.
    * 1 cup (160 gram) of cut up cantaloupe melon has only 55 calories.
    * Select canned fruits that are packed in water or juice, not syrup, and have no sugar added. 

Frozen fruits and vegetable can be good choices as long as there is no added
sugar or salt. Some benefits of frozen fruits and vegetables include:

    * Can be as nutritious or sometimes more nutritious than fresh as long as they do not contain added sauces.
    * Will not go bad as quickly as fresh.
    * Easy to prepare. Bags of frozen veggies that steam in the microwave can be ready in under 5 minutes. 

**BREADS AND GRAINS**

Choose healthy breads, cereals, and pasta, such as:

    * Whole-grain breads and rolls (read the label to make sure the first ingredient is whole wheat/whole grain.)
    * All bran, 100% bran, and shredded wheat cereals (look for cereals with at least 4 grams of fiber per serving.)
    * Whole-wheat or other whole-grain pasta.
    * Other grains such as millet, quinoa, amaranth, and bulgur.
    * Rolled oats (not instant oatmeal).

Limit refined grain or "white flour" products. They are much more likely to:

    * Be high in sugar and fats, which add calories.
    * Be low in fiber and protein.
    * Lack vitamins, minerals, and other important nutrients.

## Plan Ahead

Before you buy food for the week, think about your schedule:

    * When and where you will be eating over the next week?
    * How much time will you have to cook?

Then, plan your meals before you shop. This ensures that you have what you
need to make healthy choices throughout the week.

Make a shopping list. Having a list reduces impulse buys and ensures that you
will purchase all of the ingredients you need.

Try not to go food shopping when you are hungry. You will make better choices
if you shop after you have had a healthy meal or snack.

## Know How to Read Food Labels

Learn how to read the Nutrition Facts labels on food packages. Know what the
serving size is and the amount of calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrates
per serving. If a bag contains 2 servings and you eat the whole bag, you will
need to multiply the amount of calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrate by 2.
People with special health needs will need to pay extra attention to certain
parts of the label. For example, if you have diabetes, you should note the
grams of carbohydrates in the food. People on a heart healthy diet will need
to pay attention to the amount of sodium. Also, the updated version of
Nutrition Facts label, which will start appearing on packaged foods in July
2018, has a separate line for added sugars.

Two words on food labels that can be misleading are "natural" and "pure."

Some other tips for reading labels and buying healthy foods are:

    * Choose tuna and other canned fish that is packed in water, not oil.
    * Check the label for the words "hydrogenated" or "partially hydrogenated" in the list of ingredients. These are unhealthy trans fats. The closer to the beginning of the list these words are, the more of them the food contains. The label will give the total trans fat content, and you want this to be zero. Even foods that are listed as having zero grams trans fats may have traces so you still should also be sure to look at the ingredient list.
    * Carefully read the label of any food that claims it is a weight-loss product. Even though these words are used, the food may not be a healthy choice for you.
    * Know what "lite" and "light" mean. The word "lite" can mean fewer calories, but sometimes not much fewer. There is no set standard for that word. If a product says "light," it must have at least 1/3 fewer calories than the regular food has, but it may still not be a low-calorie or healthy option.

## Alternative Names

Obesity - grocery shopping; Overweight - grocery shopping; Weight loss -
grocery shopping; Healthy diet - grocery shopping

## Images

    * ![Food Label Guide for Whole Wheat Bread](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19343t.jpg)Food label guide for whole wheat bread
    * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10025t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Gonzalez-Campoy JM, St. Jeor ST, Castorino K, et al. Clinical practice
guidelines for healthy eating for the prevention and treatment of metabolic
and endocrine diseases in adults: cosponsored by the American Association of
Clinical Endocrinologists/the American College of Endocrinology and the
Obesity Society. _Endocr Pract_. 2013;19(Suppl 3):1-82. PMID: 24129260
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24129260.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Food labeling & nutrition.
www.fda.gov/food/food-labeling-nutrition. Updated March 11, 2020. Accessed
March 17, 2020.

US Department of Health and Human Services. US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed October 11, 2018.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update on 04-30-19. Editorial update on 03-17-20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

