Link: https://medlineplus.gov/sicklecelldisease.html    
                                Description: Sickle cell disease (or sickle cell anemia) causes your body to produce abnormally shaped red blood cells. Learn about symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Sickle Cell Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/sicklecelldisease.html

#  Sickle Cell Disease

Also called: Hemoglobin SS disease, Sickle cell anemia

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is sickle cell disease?

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a group of inherited red blood cell disorders. If
you have SCD, there is a problem with your hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein
in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. With SCD, the
hemoglobin forms into stiff rods within the red blood cells. This changes the
shape of the red blood cells. The cells are supposed to be disc-shaped, but
this changes them into a crescent, or sickle, shape.

The sickle-shaped cells are not flexible and cannot change shape easily. Many
of them burst apart as they move through your blood vessels. The sickle cells
usually only last 10 to 20 days, instead of the normal 90 to 120 days. Your
body may have trouble making enough new cells to replace the ones that you
lost. Because of this, you may not have enough red blood cells. This is a
condition called anemia, and it can make you feel tired.

The sickle-shaped cells can also stick to vessel walls, causing a blockage
that slows or stops the flow of blood. When this happens, oxygen can't reach
nearby tissues. The lack of oxygen can cause attacks of sudden, severe pain,
called pain crises. These attacks can occur without warning. If you get one,
you might need to go to the hospital for treatment.

### What causes sickle cell disease?

The cause of SCD is a defective gene, called a sickle cell gene. People with
the disease are born with two sickle cell genes, one from each parent.

If you are born with one sickle cell gene, it's called sickle cell trait.
People with sickle cell trait are generally healthy, but they can pass the
defective gene on to their children.

### Who is at risk for sickle cell disease?

In the United States, most of the people with SCD are African Americans:

    * About 1 in 13 African American babies is born with sickle cell trait
    * About 1 in every 365 black children is born with sickle cell disease

SCD also affects some people who come from Hispanic, southern European, Middle
Eastern, or Asian Indian backgrounds.

### What are the symptoms of sickle cell disease?

People with SCD start to have signs of the disease during the first year of
life, usually around 5 months of age. Early symptoms of SCD may include

    * Painful swelling of the hands and feet
    * Fatigue or fussiness from anemia
    * A yellowish color of the skin (jaundice) or the whites of the eyes (icterus)

The effects of SCD vary from person to person and can change over time. Most
of the signs and symptoms of SCD are related to complications of the disease.
They may include severe pain, anemia, organ damage, and infections.

### How is sickle cell disease diagnosed?

A blood test can show if you have SCD or sickle cell trait. All states now
test newborns as part of their screening programs, so treatment can begin
early.

People who are thinking about having children can have the test to find out
how likely it is that their children will have SCD.

Doctors can also diagnose SCD before a baby is born. That test uses a sample
of amniotic fluid (the liquid in the sac surrounding the baby) or tissue taken
from the placenta (the organ that brings oxygen and nutrients to the baby).

### What are the treatments for sickle cell disease?

The only cure for SCD is bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Because
these transplants are risky and can have serious side effects, they are
usually only used in children with severe SCD. For the transplant to work, the
bone marrow must be a close match. Usually, the best donor is a brother or
sister.

There are treatments that can help relieve symptoms, lessen complications, and
prolong life:

    * Antibiotics to try to prevent infections in younger children
    * Pain relievers for acute or chronic pain
    * Hydroxyurea, a medicine that has been shown to reduce or prevent several SCD complications. It increases the amount of fetal hemoglobin in the blood. This medicine is not right for everyone; talk to your health care provider about whether you should take it. This medicine is not safe during pregnancy.
    * Childhood immunizations to prevent infections
    * Blood transfusions for severe anemia. If you have had some serious complications, such as a stroke, you may have transfusions to prevent more complications.

There are other treatments for specific complications.

To stay as healthy as possible, make sure that you get regular medical care,
live a healthy lifestyle, and avoid situations that may set off a pain crisis.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Facts about Sickle Cell Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle Cell Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle Cell Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) (National Marrow Donor Program)
    * What is Sickle Cell Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
    * When Blood Cells Bend: Understanding Sickle Cell Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Blood Smear ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Hemoglobinopathy Evaluation (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Sickle Cell Tests (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood and Bone Marrow Transplant? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Complications and Treatments (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Living Well with Sickle Cell Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle Cell Crisis (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Five Tips to Help Prevent Infections (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Hemoglobin C, S-C, and E Diseases (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle Cell Disease and Pulmonary Hypertension (Pulmonary Hypertension Association) \- PDF
    * The A1C Test and Race/Ethnicity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Genetics

    * About Sickle Cell Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * Genetics Home Reference: sickle cell disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Prenatal Genetic Counseling (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle Cell Trait (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * Sickle Cell Disease Quiz (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

    * What Is Sickle Cell Disease? (Dolan DNA Learning Center)

## Statistics and Research

    * Data and Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * NIH Launches New Collaboration to Develop Gene-Based Cures for Sickle Cell Disease and HIV on Global Scale (National Institutes of Health)
    * NIH Researchers Create New Viral Vector for Improved Gene Therapy in Sickle Cell Disease (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Anemia, Sickle Cell ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Ghana takes on sickle-cell disease.
    * Article: The role of hydroxyurea to prevent silent stroke in sickle cell...
    * Article: Emerging drugs in randomized controlled trials for sickle cell disease: are...
    * Sickle Cell Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Genetic Counselor (National Society of Genetic Counselors)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Sickle Cell Disease Association of America

## Children

    * Sickle Cell Anemia Disease (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Sickle Cell Disease (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle Cell Disease and Your Baby (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Sickle Cell Disease (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * What You Should Know about Sickle Cell Disease and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Hemoglobin electrophoresis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle cell anemia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sickle cell test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sickle_Cell_Topic.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Hemoglobin electrophoresis
    * Hemoglobinuria test
    * Sickle cell anemia
    * Sickle cell test
    * Total iron binding capacity

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Sickle Cell Disease is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * From Africa to the U.S.: A Young Woman's Search for Sickle Cell Disease Treatment
    * Investigating Bone Marrow Transplants: A Cure for Some Sickle Cell Disease Patients
    * Is a Widely Available Cure for Sickle Cell Disease on the Horizon?
    * Path to Hope for Sickle Cell Disease
    * Sickle Cell Disease: What You Should Know
    * Step Inside NIH's Sickle Cell Branch
    * Treating Sickle Cell Disease in Children Around the World
    * Updates from NIH's Sickle Cell Disease Scientists
    * Why Jordin Sparks Wants More People to Talk About Sickle Cell Disease

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 7 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

