Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000724.htm    
                                Description: Snacks are small, quick mini-meals. Snacks are eaten between meals and help keep you full. Including a protein-source with your snack (such as nuts, beans, or low-fat or fat-free dairy) or a whole-grain    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

12 healthy snacks with 200 calories or less

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000724.htm

# 12 healthy snacks with 200 calories or less

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Snacks are small, quick mini-meals. Snacks are eaten between meals and help
keep you full. Including a protein-source with your snack (such as nuts,
beans, or low-fat or fat-free dairy) or a whole-grain can help to give snacks
more "staying power" so you will not get hungry again as soon. Healthy snacks
are:

    * Whole grain
    * Low-salt
    * Low in added sugar
    * Fresh foods like fruits and vegetables 

## Snacks List

Here are a dozen health snack ideas you can try:

    1. One medium apple or pear with 12 almonds
    2. Half cup (120 milliliters, mL) of berries with 6 ounces (oz), or 170 grams (g), of plain yogurt or low-fat cottage cheese
    3. One small banana with 1 tablespoon (tbsp), or (15 mL), unsalted peanut butter or almond butter
    4. One quarter cup (62 mL) trail mix with dried fruits and nuts (with no added sugar or salt)
    5. Three cups (720 mL) air popped popcorn with 2 tbsp (30 mL) shredded parmesan cheese
    6. One cup (240 mL) of grapes or cherry tomatoes with a low-fat string cheese
    7. One cup (240 mL) raw carrots, broccoli, or bell peppers with 2 tbsp (30 mL) of hummus or black bean dip
    8. One cup (240 mL) tomato soup with five whole grain crackers
    9. One third cup (80 mL) rolled oats cooked in 1 cup (240 mL) fat-free milk with cinnamon
    10. A hard-boiled egg and 12 almonds
    11. Fruit smoothie with 1 cup (240 mL) fat-free milk, half a small banana, and half cup (120 g) berries
    12. Five whole wheat crackers and 1 oz (28 g) low-fat cheddar 

## Why Snacks can be Good for you

Snacks are good for you, as long as you include healthy choices and snack
mindfully. (For example, put the desired amount if food on a plate rather than
eating directly from the bag.) Small snacks between meals can keep you from
overeating at mealtimes and help you manage your weight.

Healthy snacks for adults can provide energy for work and exercise. Healthy
snacks and drinks for children provide much needed energy for growth, school,
and sports. Offer young children healthy snacks, and they may be more likely
to choose them on their own when they get older. Avoid snacks with added sugar
to help you maintain healthy teeth.

Eating a variety of snacks like the ones above will give you extra vitamins,
minerals, fiber, antioxidants (substances that help prevent cell damage), and
other disease-fighting nutrients. Choosing low-calorie snacks can help you or
your child maintain a healthy weight.

Limit high-calorie sports drinks and packaged, processed snacks, likes chips
or cookies. Include a glass of water with your snack instead of a sweetened
beverage.

If you have diabetes, you may need to pay attention to the number of
carbohydrates in your snacks, as well.

## Alternative Names

Nibbles; Appetizers; Healthy eating - healthy snacks; Weight loss - healthy
snacks; Healthy diet - healthy snacks; Wellness - healthy snacks

## References

American Diabetes Association website. Healthy food choices made easy.
www.diabetes.org/nutrition/healthy-food-choices-made-easy. Accessed August 13,
2019.

American Heart Association website. Healthy for good.
www.heart.org/en/healthy-living. Updated September 20, 2016. Accessed July 12,
2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. How to use fruits and
vegetables to manage your weight.
www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/healthy_eating/fruits_vegetables.html. Updated
November 9, 2015. Accessed July 12, 2018.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services website. Healthy snacks: quick
tips for parents. health.gov/myhealthfinder/topics/everyday-healthy-
living/nutrition/healthy-snacks-quick-tips-parents. Updated February 11, 2020.
Accessed February 11, 2020.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 08-13-19.
Editorial update on 02-11-20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

