Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002435.htm    
                                Description: Food additives are substances that become part of a food product when they are added during the processing or making of that food.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food additives

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002435.htm

# Food additives

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Food additives are substances that become part of a food product when they are
added during the processing or making of that food.

"Direct" food additives are often added during processing to:

    * Add nutrients
    * Help process or prepare the food
    * Keep the product fresh
    * Make the food more appealing

Direct food additives may be man-made or natural.

Natural food additives include:

    * Herbs or spices to add flavor to foods
    * Vinegar for pickling foods
    * Salt, to preserve meats

"Indirect" food additives are substances that may be found in food during or
after it is processed. They were not used or placed in the food on purpose.
These additives are present in small amounts in the final product.

## Function

Food additives serve 5 main functions. They are:

1\. Give the food a smooth and consistent texture:

    * Emulsifiers prevent liquid products from separating.
    * Stabilizers and thickeners provide an even texture.
    * Anticaking agents allow substances to flow freely.

2\. Improve or preserve the nutrient value:

    * Many foods and drinks are fortified and enriched to provide vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients. Examples of commonly fortified foods are flour, cereal, margarine, and milk. This helps make up for vitamins or minerals that may be low or lacking in a person's diet.
    * All products that contain added nutrients must be labeled.

3\. Maintain the wholesomeness of foods:

    * Bacteria and other germs can cause foodborne illnesses. Preservatives reduce the spoilage that these germs can cause.
    * Certain preservatives help preserve the flavor in baked goods by preventing the fats and oils from going bad.
    * Preservatives also keep fresh fruits from turning brown when they are exposed to the air.

4\. Control the acid-base balance of foods and provide leavening:

    * Certain additives help change the acid-base balance of foods to get a certain flavor or color.
    * Leavening agents that release acids when they are heated react with baking soda to help biscuits, cakes, and other baked goods rise.

5\. Provide color and enhance flavor:

    * Certain colors improve the appearance of foods.
    * Many spices, as well as natural and man-made flavors, bring out the taste of food.

## Side Effects

Most concerns about food additives have to do with man-made ingredients that
are added to foods. Some of these are:

    * Antibiotics given to food-producing animals, such as chickens and cows
    * Antioxidants in oily or fatty foods
    * Artificial sweeteners, such as aspartame, saccharin, sodium cyclamate, and sucralose
    * Benzoic acid in fruit juices
    * Lecithin, gelatins, cornstarch, waxes, gums, and propylene glycol in food stabilizers and emulsifiers
    * Many different dyes and coloring substances
    * Monosodium glutamate (MSG)
    * Nitrates and nitrites in hot dogs and other processed meat products
    * Sulfites in beer, wine, and packaged vegetables

The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has a list of food
additives that are thought to be safe. Many have not been tested, but most
scientists consider them safe. These substances are put on the "generally
recognized as safe (GRAS)" list. This list contains about 700 items.

Congress defines safe as "reasonable certainty that no harm will result from
use" of an additive. Examples of items on this list are: guar gum, sugar,
salt, and vinegar. The list is reviewed regularly.

Some substances that are found to be harmful to people or animals may still be
allowed, but only at the level of 1/100th of the amount that is considered
harmful. For their own protection, people with any allergies or food
intolerances should always check the ingredient list on the label. Reactions
to any additive can be mild or severe. For example, some people with asthma
have worsening of their asthma after eating foods or drinks that contain
sulfites.

It is important to keep gathering information about the safety of food
additives. Report any reactions you have to food or food additives to the FDA
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN). Information about
reporting a reaction is available at
www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/CentersOffices/OfficeofFoods/CFSAN/ContactCFSAN/default.htm.

## Recommendations

The FDA and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) supervise and
regulate the use of additives in food products sold in the United States.
However, people who have special diets or intolerances should be careful when
choosing what products to buy.

## Alternative Names

Additives in food; Artificial flavors and color

## References

Aronson JK. Glutamic acid and glutamates. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:chap 557-558.

Bush RK, Taylor SL. Reactions to food and drug additives. In: Adkinson NF Jr,
Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 82.

International Food Information Council (IFIC) and US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). Food ingredients and colors.
www.fda.gov/media/73811/download. Updated November, 2014. AccessedÂ April 19,
2018.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Nutrition_thumb.jpg)Nutrition
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

