Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000807.htm    
                                Description: Health experts recommend moderate-intensity exercise on most days of the week. So, you may be surprised to learn that you can get too much exercise. If you exercise often and find that you are often tired,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Are you getting too much exercise?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000807.htm

# Are you getting too much exercise?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Health experts recommend moderate-intensity exercise on most days of the week.
So, you may be surprised to learn that you can get too much exercise. If you
exercise often and find that you are often tired, or your performance suffers,
it may be time to back off for a bit.

Learn the signs that you may be exercising too much. Find out how to keep your
competitive edge without overdoing it.

## How too Much Exercise can Hurt

To get stronger and faster, you need to push your body. But you also need to
rest.

Rest is an important part of training. It allows your body to recover for your
next workout. When you do not get enough rest, it can lead to poor performance
and health problems.

Pushing too hard for too long can backfire. Here are some symptoms of too much
exercise:

    * Being unable to perform at the same level
    * Needing longer periods of rest
    * Feeling tired
    * Being depressed
    * Having mood swings or irritability
    * Having trouble sleeping
    * Feeling sore muscles or heavy limbs
    * Getting overuse injuries
    * Losing motivation
    * Getting more colds
    * Losing weight
    * Feeling anxiety 

If you have been exercising a lot and have any of these symptoms, cut back on
exercise or rest completely for 1 or 2 weeks. Often, this is all it takes to
recover.

If you are still tired after 1 or 2 weeks of rest, see your health care
provider. You may need to keep resting or dial back your workouts for a month
or longer. Your provider can help you decide how and when it is safe to start
exercising again.

## How to Avoid Overtraining

You can avoid overdoing it by listening to your body and getting enough rest.
Here are some other ways to make sure you are not overdoing it:

    * Eat enough calories for your level of exercise.
    * Decrease your workouts before a competition.
    * Drink enough water when you exercise.
    * Aim to get at least 8 hours of sleep each night.
    * DO NOT exercise in extreme heat or cold.
    * Cut back or stop exercising when you don't feel well or are under a lot of stress.
    * Rest for at least 6 hours in between periods of exercise. Take a full day off every week. 

## Compulsive Exercising

For some people, exercise can become a compulsion. This is when exercise is no
longer something you choose to do, but something you feel like you have to do.
Here are some signs to look for:

    * You feel guilty or anxious if you do not exercise.
    * You continue to exercise, even if you are injured or sick.
    * Friends, family, or your provider are worried about how much you exercise.
    * Exercise is no longer fun.
    * You skip work, school, or social events to exercise.
    * You stop having periods (women). 

Compulsive exercise may be associated with eating disorders, such as anorexia
and bulimia. It can cause problems with your heart, bones, muscles, and
nervous system.

## When to Call a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have signs of overtraining after 1 or 2 weeks of rest
    * Have signs of being a compulsive exerciser
    * Feel out of control about how much you exercise
    * Feel out of control about how much you eat 

Your provider may recommend that you see a counselor who treats compulsive
exercise or eating disorders. Your provider or counselor may use one or more
of these treatments:

    * Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT)
    * Antidepressant medicines
    * Support groups 

## References

American Council on Exercise website. 9 signs of overtraining.
www.acefitness.org/education-and-resources/lifestyle/blog/6466/9-signs-of-
overtraining?pageID=634. Accessed August 8, 2018.

Carfagno DG, Hendrix JC 3rd. Overtraining syndrome in the athlete: current
clinical practice. _Curr Sports Med Rep_. 2014;13(1):45-51. PMID: 24412891
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24412891.

Meeusen R, Duclos M, Foster C, et al. Prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of
the overtraining syndrome: joint consensus statement of the European College
of Sport Science and the American College of Sports Medicine. _Med Sci Sports
Exerc_. 2013;45(1):186-205. PMID: 23247672
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247672.

Rothmier JD, Harmon KG, O'Kane JW. Sports medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness
    * How Much Exercise Do I Need?
    * Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

