Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002436.htm    
                                Description: A healthy diet is a major factor in reducing your risk for heart disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart disease and diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002436.htm

# Heart disease and diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A healthy diet is a major factor in reducing your risk for heart disease.

## Function

A healthy diet and lifestyle can reduce your risk for:

    * Heart disease, heart attacks, and stroke
    * Conditions that lead to heart disease, including high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and obesity
    * Other chronic health problems, including type 2 diabetes, osteoporosis, and some forms of cancer 

This article makes recommendations that can help prevent heart disease and
other conditions that can affect the health of your heart. People who
currently have a heart condition, such as heart failure, or other health
problems, such as diabetes, should talk with their health care provider about
what type of diet is best. You may need to make certain changes to your diet
that are not included in these recommendations.

## Recommendations

**FRUITS AND VEGETABLES**

Fruits and vegetables are part of a heart-healthy diet. They are good sources
of fiber, vitamins, and minerals. Most are low in fat, calories, sodium, and
cholesterol.

Eat 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetables per day.

Get more fiber by eating whole fruits instead of drinking juice.

![Fruits and
vegetables](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19816.jpg)

 **GRAINS**

Include whole wheat bread and pasta, brown rice, and starchy vegetables (such
as peas, potatoes, corn, winter squash, and lima beans). These foods are high
in the B vitamins, iron, and fiber.

Choose whole grain foods (such as whole-wheat bread, cereal, crackers, and
pasta or brown rice) for at least half of your daily grain intake. Grain
products provide fiber, vitamins, minerals, and complex carbohydrates. Eating
too many grains, especially refined gain foods (such as white bread, pasta,
and baked goods) can cause weight gain.

Limit high-fat baked goods such as butter rolls, cheese crackers, and
croissants, and cream sauces for pasta. Avoid packaged snacks that contain
partially hydrogenated oils or trans fats.

 **EATING HEALTHY PROTEIN**

Meat, poultry, seafood, dried peas, lentils, nuts, and eggs are good sources
of protein, B vitamins, iron, and other vitamins and minerals.

![Fish in diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19493.jpg)

You should:

    * Limit high-fat proteins. These include meats such as duck, goose, prime cuts of steak, organ meats such as kidneys and liver, and prepared meats such as sausage, hot dogs, and high-fat lunch meats.
    * Trim off all visible fat before cooking the meat.
    * Eat at least 2 servings of low-mercury fish per week.
    * Cook by baking, broiling, roasting, steaming, boiling, or microwaving instead of deep frying.
    * For the main entree, use less meat or have meatless meals a few times a week. Get protein from plant-based protein foods instead.
    * Use skinless turkey, chicken, fish, or lean red meat to reduce the amount of saturated fat in your diet. 

Milk and other dairy products are good sources of protein, calcium, the B
vitamins niacin and riboflavin, and vitamins A and D. Use skim or 1% milk.
Cheese, yogurt, and buttermilk should be low-fat or non-fat.

 **FATS, OILS, AND CHOLESTEROL**

Some types of fat are healthier than others. A diet high in saturated and
trans fats causes cholesterol to build up in your arteries (blood vessels).
This puts you at risk for heart attack, stroke, and other major health
problems. Avoid or limit foods that are high in these fats. Polyunsaturated
and monounsaturated fats that come from vegetable sources have many health
benefits.

![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19473.jpg)

You should:

    * Limit total fat intake to 25% to 35% of your total daily calories. The American Heart Association recommends eating a healthy diet that limits 5% to 6% of calories from saturated fat.
    * Foods with a lot of saturated fats include animal products such as butter, cheese, whole milk, ice cream, sour cream, lard, and fatty meats such as bacon.
    * Some vegetable oils (coconut, palm, and palm kernel oils) also contain saturated fats. These fats are solid at room temperature.
    * Limit trans fats as much as possible by avoiding hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated fats. These are often found in packaged snacks and solid margarine.
    * Eat less than 300 mg of dietary cholesterol each day. (One egg yolk contains an average of 184 mg of cholesterol.) 

Think about the following when choosing a margarine:

    * Choose soft margarine (tub or liquid) over harder stick forms.
    * Choose margarines with liquid vegetable oil as the first ingredient. Even better, choose "light" margarines that list water as the first ingredient. These are even lower in saturated fat.
    * Read the package label to choose a margarine that does not have trans fats. 

Trans fatty acids are unhealthy fats that form when vegetable oil undergoes
hydrogenation.

    * Trans fats can raise LDL (bad) cholesterol level in your blood. They can also lower your HDL (good) cholesterol level.
    * To avoid trans fats, limit fried foods, commercial baked goods (donuts, cookies, and crackers), and hard margarines. 

**OTHER TIPS TO KEEP YOUR HEART HEALTHY**

You may find it helpful to talk to a dietitian about your eating choices. The
American Heart Association is a good source of information on diet and heart
disease. Balance the number of calories you eat with the number you use each
day to maintain a healthy body weight. You can ask your doctor or dietitian to
help you figure out a good number of calories for you.

Limit your intake of foods high in calories or low in nutrition, including
foods like soft drinks and candy that contain a lot of sugar.

The American Heart Association recommends that sodium intake be no more than
2,300 milligrams (about 1 teaspoon, or 5 mg) a day with an ideal limit of no
more than 1,500 mg per day for most adults. Cut down on salt by reducing the
amount of salt you add to food when eating and cooking. Also limit packaged
foods that have salt added to them, such as canned soups and vegetables, cured
meats, and some frozen meals. Always check the nutrition label for the sodium
content per serving and be sure to pay attention to the number of servings per
container. Season foods with lemon juice, fresh herbs or spices instead.

Foods with more than 300 mg of sodium per serving may not fit into a reduced
sodium diet.

Exercise regularly. For example, walk for at least 30 minutes a day, in blocks
of 10 minutes or longer. Try to move at least 30 minutes most, if not all,
days of the week.

Limit the amount of alcohol you drink. Women should have no more than 1
alcoholic drink per day. Men should not have more than 2 alcoholic drinks each
day. One drink is defined as 12 ounces (355 milliliters, mL) of beer, 5 ounces
(148 mL) of wine, or a 1 1/2-ounce (44 mL) shot of liquor.

## Alternative Names

Diet - heart disease; CAD - diet; Coronary artery disease - diet; Coronary
heart disease - diet

## Patient Instructions

    * Cholesterol - drug treatment

## Images

    * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19492t.jpg)Healthy diet
    * ![Fish in diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19493t.jpg)Fish in diet
    * ![Fruits and vegetables](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19816t.jpg)Fruits and vegetables
    * ![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19473t.jpg)Obesity and health

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Mosca L, Benjamin EJ, Berra K, et al. Effectiveness-based guidelines for
cardiovascular disease prevention in women -- 2011 update: a guideline from
the American Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2011;123(11):1243-1262. PMID:
21325087 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21325087.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic disease. In: Mann
DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 46.

US Food and Drug Administration website. The new and improved nutrition facts
label - key changes. www.fda.gov/media/99331/download. Updated January, 2018.
Accessed June 14, 2018.

## Review Date 6/13/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Diseases--
Prevention](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseasePrevention_thumb.jpg)How
to Prevent Heart Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

