Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000858.htm    
                                Description: Anger is a normal emotion that everyone feels from time to time. But when you feel anger too intensely or too often, it can become a problem. Anger can put a strain on your relationships or cause problems    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Learn to manage your anger

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000858.htm

# Learn to manage your anger

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anger is a normal emotion that everyone feels from time to time. But when you
feel anger too intensely or too often, it can become a problem. Anger can put
a strain on your relationships or cause problems at school or work.

Anger management can help you learn healthy ways to express and control your
anger.

## Understanding Anger

Anger can be triggered by feelings, people, events, situations, or memories.
You may feel anger when you worry about conflicts at home. A bossy coworker or
commuter traffic may make you angry.

When you feel anger, your blood pressure and heart rate go up. Certain hormone
levels increase, causing a burst of energy. This allows us to react
aggressively when we feel threatened.

There are always going to be things in life that make you angry. The problem
is that lashing out is not a good way to react most of the time. You have
little or no control over the things that cause your anger. But can you learn
to control your reaction.

## Who Needs Anger Management

Some people seem to be more prone to anger. Others may have grown up in a
household full of anger and threats. Excess anger causes problems both for you
and the people around you. Being angry all the time pushes people away. It can
also be bad for your heart and cause stomach problems, trouble sleeping, and
headaches.

You may need help controlling your anger if you:

    * Often get into arguments that spin out of control
    * Become violent or break things when angry
    * Threaten others when you are angry
    * Have been arrested or jailed because of your anger

## How Anger Management Works

Anger management teaches you how to express your anger in a healthy way. You
can learn to express your feelings and needs while respecting others.

Here are some ways to manage your anger. You can try one or combine a few:

    *  **Pay attention to what triggers your anger.** You may need to do this after you calm down. Knowing when you may get angry can help you plan ahead to manage your reaction.
    *  **Change your thinking.** Angry people often see things in terms of "always" or "never." For example, you may think "you never support me" or "things always go wrong for me." The fact is, this is rarely true. These statements can make you feel that there is no solution. This only fuels your anger. Try to avoid using these words. This can help you see things more clearly. It may take a little practice at first, but it will get easier the more you do it.
    *  **Find ways to relax.** Learning to relax your body and mind can help you calm down. There are many different relaxation techniques to try. You can learn them from classes, books, DVDs, and online. Once you find a technique that works for you, you can use it whenever you start to feel angry.
    *  **Take a time out.** Sometimes, the best way to calm your anger is to get away from the situation that is causing it. If you feel like you are about to blow up, take a few minutes alone to cool off. Tell family, friends, or trusted coworkers about this strategy ahead of time. Let them know you will need a few minutes to calm down and will return when you have cooled off.
    *  **Work to solve problems.** If the same situation makes you feel angry over and over, look for a solution. For example, if you get angry every morning sitting in traffic, look for a different route or leave at a different time. You could also try public transportation, riding your bike to work, or listening to a book or calming music.
    *  **Learn to communicate.** If you find yourself ready to fly off the handle, take a moment to slow down. Try to listen to the other person without jumping to conclusions. DO NOT respond with the first thing that pops into your mind. You may regret it later. Instead, take a moment to think about your answer. 

## For More Help

If you need more help dealing with your anger, look for a class on anger
management or talk with a counselor who specializes in this topic. Ask your
health care provider for suggestions and referrals.

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider:

    * If you feel like your anger is out of control
    * If your anger is affecting your relationships or work
    * You are concerned you might hurt yourself or others 

## References

American Psychological Association website. Controlling anger before it
controls you. www.apa.org/topics/anger/control.aspx. Accessed August 10, 2018.

Vaccarino V, Bremner JD. Psychiatric and behavioral aspects of cardiovascular
disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 96.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Mental Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

