Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001925.htm    
                                Description: You can stay healthy during travel by taking the right steps to protect yourself before you go. You can also do things to help prevent disease while you are traveling. Most infections you catch while traveling    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traveler's guide to avoiding infectious diseases

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001925.htm

# Traveler's guide to avoiding infectious diseases

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You can stay healthy during travel by taking the right steps to protect
yourself before you go. You can also do things to help prevent disease while
you are traveling. Most infections you catch while traveling are minor. In
rare cases, however, they can be severe, or even deadly.

Diseases vary in different places in the world. You will need to take
different preventive steps, depending on where you are going. The following
things should be considered:

    * Local climate
    * Insects and parasites
    * Sanitation 

The best public sources for up-to-date travel information are the:

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) -- wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel
    * World Health Organization (WHO) -- www.who.int/ith/en

BEFORE TRAVEL

Talk to your health care provider or visit a travel clinic 4Â to 6 weeks
before you leave for your trip. You may need several vaccinations. Some of
these need time to work.

You also may need to update your vaccinations. For example, you may need
"booster" vaccines for:

    * Diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (Tdap)
    * Influenza (flu)
    * Measles - mumps - rubella (MMR)
    * Polio

You also may need vaccines for diseases that are not commonly found in North
America. Examples of recommended vaccines include:

    * Hepatitis A
    * Hepatitis B
    * Meningococcal
    * Typhoid 

Certain countries have required vaccinations. You may need proof that you have
had this vaccine in order to enter the country.

    * Yellow fever vaccination is required to enter certain Sub-Saharan, Central African, and South American countries.
    * Meningococcal vaccination is required to enter Saudi Arabia for the Hajj pilgrimage.
    * For a complete list of country requirements, check the CDC or WHO websites. 

People who may have different vaccine requirements include:

    * Children
    * Older people
    * People with weakened immune systems or HIV
    * People who expect to be in contact with certain animals
    * Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding 

Check with your provider or local travel clinic.

PREVENTING MALARIA

Malaria is a serious disease that spreads by the bite of certain mosquitoes.
It occurs mainly in tropical and subtropical climates. Malaria can cause high
fevers, shaking chills, flu-like symptoms, and anemia.

If you are traveling to an area where malaria is common, you may need to take
medicines that prevent the disease. These medicines are taken before you
leave, during your travel, and for a short period after you return. How well
the medicines work varies. You should also take steps to prevent insect bites.

ZIKA VIRUS

Zika is a virus passed to humans by the bite of infected mosquitoes. Symptoms
include fever, joint pain, rash, and red eyes (conjunctivitis). The mosquitoes
that spread Zika are the same type that spread dengue fever and chikungunya
virus. These mosquitoes usually feed during the day. No vaccine exists for
preventing Zika.

There is believed to be a link between mothers with Zika infection and babies
born with microcephaly and other birth defects. Zika can spread from a mother
to her baby in the uterus (in utero) or at the time of birth. A man with Zika
can spread the disease to his sex partners. There have been reports of Zika
spreading through blood transfusion.

Before 2015, the virus was found mainly in Africa, Southeast Asia, and the
Pacific Islands. It has now spread to many states and countries including:

    * Brazil
    * Caribbean Islands
    * Central America
    * Mexico
    * North America
    * South America
    * Puerto Rico 

The disease has been found in certain regions of the United States. For the
most up-to-date information, please visit the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention's (CDC) websiteÂ -- www.cdc.gov/zika.

To prevent getting the Zika virus, take steps to avoid mosquito bites. Sexual
transmission of the virus can be prevented by using condoms or not having sex
with a person who is possibly infected.

PREVENTING INSECT BITES

To prevent against bites from mosquitoes and other insects:

    * Wear insect repellent when you are outdoors, but use it safely. Conventional repellents include DEET and picaridin. Some biopesticide repellents are oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE), PMD, and IR3535.
    * You may also need to use a bed mosquito net while you sleep.
    * Wear trousers and long-sleeved shirts, particularly at dusk.
    * Sleep only in screened areas.
    * Do not wear perfumes. 

FOOD AND WATER SAFETY

You can get some types of infections by eating or drinking contaminated food
or water. There is a high risk of infection from eating undercooked or raw
foods.

Stay away from the following foods:

    * Cooked food that has been allowed to cool (such as from street vendors)
    * Fruit that has not been washed with clean water and then peeled
    * Raw vegetables
    * Salads
    * Unpasteurized dairy foods, such as milk or cheese 

Drinking untreated or contaminated water can lead to infection. Only drink the
following liquids:

    * Canned or unopened bottled beverages (water, juice, carbonated mineral water, soft drinks)
    * Drinks made with boiled water, such as tea and coffee 

Do not use ice in your drinks unless it is made from purified water. You can
purify water by boiling it or by treating it with certain chemical kits or
water filters.

OTHER STEPS TO PREVENT INFECTIOUS DISEASES

Clean your hands often. Use soap and water or an alcohol-based cleanser to
help prevent infection.

Do not stand or swim in fresh-water rivers, streams, or lakes that have sewage
or animal feces in them. This can lead to infection. Swimming in chlorinated
pools is safe most of the time.

WHEN TO CONTACT A MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL

Diarrhea can sometimes be treated with rest and fluids. Your provider may give
you an antibiotic to take on your trip in case you get sick with severe
diarrhea while traveling.

Get medical care right away if:

    * Diarrhea does not go away
    * You develop a high fever or become dehydrated 

Contact your provider when you return home if you were sick with a fever while
traveling.

## Alternative Names

Travelers' health; Infectious diseases and travelers

## Images

    * ![Infectious diseases and travelers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17184t.jpg)Infectious diseases and travelers
    * ![Malaria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17248t.jpg)Malaria

## References

Basnyat B, Ericsson CD. Travel medicine. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Field Guide to
Wilderness Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2013:chap 84.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Zika virus. For healthcare
providers: clinical evaluation and disease. www.cdc.gov/zika/hc-
providers/clinicalevaluation.html. Updated April 24, 2017. Accessed April 13,
2016.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Zika virus: transmission
methods. www.cdc.gov/zika/prevention/transmission-methods.html. Updated
February 9, 2018. Accessed June 14, 2018.

Freedman DO. Approach to the patient before and after travel. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 286.

Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Ministry of Health. Health regulations: meningococcal
meningitis.
www.moh.gov.sa/en/Hajj/HealthGuidelines/HealthGuidelinesDuringHajj/Pages/MeningococcalMeningitis.aspx.
Accessed December 6, 2017.

Swanson SJ, John CC. Health advice for children travelling internationally.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 175.

World Health Organization website. Country list: yellow fever vaccination
requirements and recommendations; malaria situation; and other vaccination
requirements. www.who.int/ith/ITH_country_list.pdf. Accessed December 6, 2017.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 06/14/2018.

![Traveler's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TravelersHealth_thumb.jpg)Traveler's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

