Link: https://medlineplus.gov/shoulderinjuriesanddisorders.html    
                                Description: Your shoulders can be affected by injuries such as sprains, strains and rotator cuff tear. Learn how to treat and prevent shoulder pain and injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/shoulderinjuriesanddisorders.html

#  Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your shoulder joint is composed of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the
scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone). Your shoulders are
the most movable joints in your body. They can also be unstable because the
ball of the upper arm is larger than the shoulder socket that holds it. To
remain in a stable or normal position, the shoulder must be anchored by
muscles, tendons, and ligaments.

Because your shoulder can be unstable, it can be easily injured. Common
problems include

    * Sprains and strains
    * Dislocations
    * Separations
    * Tendinitis
    * Bursitis
    * Torn rotator cuffs
    * Frozen shoulder
    * Fractures (broken bones)
    * Arthritis

Health care providers diagnose shoulder problems by using your medical
history, a physical exam, and imaging tests.

Often, the first treatment for shoulder problems is RICE. This stands for
Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation. Other treatments include exercise and
medicines to reduce pain and swelling. If those don't work, you may need
surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Questions and Answers About Shoulder Problems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Shoulder Pain and Common Shoulder Problems (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder Problems: Symptom Checker Flowchart (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Arthrography ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * MRI of the Musculoskeletal System (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Musculoskeletal Ultrasound (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder MRI (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Cortisone Shots (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Joint and Soft Tissue Injections (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder Arthroscopy (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Shoulder Joint Replacement (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)

## Living With

    * Rotator Cuff and Shoulder Rehabilitation Exercises (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)

## Related Issues

    * Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy (LGMD) (Muscular Dystrophy Association) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Arthritis of the Shoulder (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Shoulder Instability (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Clavicle Fracture (Broken Collarbone) (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Frozen Shoulder (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Separated Shoulder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Shoulder Fractures (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)
    * Shoulder Instability (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder Trauma (Fractures and Dislocations) (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * SLAP Tears (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Tendinitis and Bursitis (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Acromioclavicular Joint Injuries ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Shoulder Dislocation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Shoulder Fractures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Shoulder Injuries ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Comparison of MRI and MRA for the diagnosis of rotator cuff...
    * Article: Global Perspectives on Management of Shoulder Instability: Decision Making and Treatment.
    * Article: Does the ZipTightTM effective to maintain reduction after the treatment of...
    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Brachial plexopathy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Broken collarbone - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Frozen shoulder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Frozen shoulder - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder arthroscopy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder CT scan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder MRI scan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder pain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Using your shoulder after surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Brachial plexopathy
    * Broken collarbone - aftercare
    * Fractured clavicle in the newborn
    * Frozen shoulder
    * Frozen shoulder - aftercare
    * Shoulder arthroscopy
    * Shoulder CT scan
    * Shoulder MRI scan
    * Shoulder pain
    * Shoulder replacement
    * Shoulder replacement - discharge
    * Shoulder separation - aftercare
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Arm Injuries and Disorders
    * Brachial Plexus Injuries
    * Dislocated Shoulder
    * Hand Injuries and Disorders
    * Rotator Cuff Injuries
    * Thoracic Outlet Syndrome

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Shoulder Injuries and Disorders
is the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Shoulder Injuries
and Disorders_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 19 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

