Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002433.htm    
                                Description: Traveler    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traveler's diarrhea diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002433.htm

# Traveler's diarrhea diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Traveler's diarrhea is loose, watery stools. People can get traveler's
diarrhea when they visit places where the water is not clean or the food is
not handled safely. This can include developing countries in Latin America,
Africa, the Middle East, and Asia.

This article tells you what you should eat or drink if you have traveler's
diarrhea.

## Function

Bacteria and other substances in the water and food can cause traveler's
diarrhea. People who live in these areas don't often get sick because their
bodies are used to the bacteria.

You can lower your risk of getting traveler's diarrhea by avoiding water, ice,
and food that may be contaminated. The goal of the traveler's diarrhea diet is
to make your symptoms better and prevent you from getting dehydrated.

## Side Effects

Traveler's diarrhea is rarely dangerous in adults. It can be more serious in
children.

## Recommendations

How to prevent traveler's diarrhea:

WATER AND OTHER DRINKS

    * Do not use tap water to drink or brush your teeth.
    * Do not use ice made from tap water.
    * Use only boiled water (boiled for at least 5 minutes) for mixing baby formula.
    * For infants, breastfeeding is the best and safest food source. However, the stress of traveling may reduce the amount of milk you make.
    * Drink only pasteurized milk.
    * Drink bottled drinks if the seal on the bottle hasn't been broken.
    * Sodas and hot drinks are often safe. 

FOOD

    * Do not eat raw fruits and vegetables unless you peel them. Wash all fruits and vegetables before eating them.
    * Do not eat raw leafy vegetables (e.g. lettuce, spinach, cabbage) because they are hard to clean.
    * Do not eat raw or rare meats.
    * Avoid shellfish.
    * Do not buy food from street vendors.
    * Eat hot, well-cooked foods. Heat kills the bacteria. But do not eat hot foods that have been sitting around for a long time. 

WASHING

    * Wash hands often.
    * Watch children carefully so they do not put things in their mouth or touch dirty items and then put their hands in their mouth.
    * If possible, keep infants from crawling on dirty floors.
    * Check to see that utensils and dishes are clean. 

There is no vaccine against traveler's diarrhea.

Your doctor may recommend medicines to help lower your chances of getting
sick.

    * Taking 2 tablets of Pepto-Bismol 4 times a day before you travel and while you are traveling can help prevent diarrhea. Do not take Pepto-Bismol for more than 3 weeks.
    * Most people do not need to take antibiotics every day to prevent diarrhea while traveling.
    * People who are at risk for more dangerous infections (such as chronic bowel diseases, kidney disease, cancer, diabetes, or HIV) should talk to their doctor before traveling.
    * Prescription medicine such as ciprofloxacin or rifaximin can also help prevent traveler's diarrhea. Ask your doctor if a prophylactic medicine is right for you.

If you have diarrhea, follow these tips to help you feel better:

    * Drink 8 to 10 glasses of clear fluids every day. Water or an oral rehydration solution is best.
    * Drink at least 1 cup (240 milliliters) of liquid every time you have a loose bowel movement.
    * Eat small meals every few hours instead of three big meals.
    * Eat some salty foods, such as pretzels, soup, and sports drinks.
    * Eat foods that are high in potassium, such as bananas, potatoes without the skin, and fruit juices. 

Dehydration means your body does not have as much water and fluids as it
should. It is a very big problem for children or people who are in a hot
climate. Signs of severe dehydration include:

    * Decreased urine (fewer wet diapers in infants)
    * Dry mouth
    * Sunken eyes
    * Few tears when crying 

Give your child fluids for the first 4 to 6 hours. At first, try 1 ounce (2
tablespoons or 30 milliliters) of fluid every 30 to 60 minutes.

    * You can use an over-the-counter drink, such as Pedialyte or Infalyte. Do not add water to these drinks.
    * You can also try Pedialyte frozen fruit-flavored pops.
    * Fruit juice or broth with water added to it may also help. These drinks can give your child important minerals that are being lost in the diarrhea.
    * If you are breastfeeding your infant, keep doing it. If you are using formula, use it at half-strength for 2 to 3 feedings after the diarrhea starts. Then you can begin regular formula feedings. 

In developing countries, many health agencies stock packets of salts to mix
with water. If these packets are not available, you can make an emergency
solution by mixing:

    * 1/2 teaspoon (3 grams) of salt
    * 2 tablespoons (25 grams) sugar or rice powder
    * 1/4 teaspoon (1.5 grams) potassium chloride (salt substitute)
    * 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 grams) trisodium citrate (can be replaced with baking soda)
    * 1 liter of clean water 

Get medical help right away if you or your child has symptoms of severe
dehydration, or if you have a fever or bloody stools.

## Alternative Names

Diet - traveler's diarrhea; Diarrhea - traveler's - diet; Gastroenteritis -
traveler's

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## References

Basnyat B, Ericsson CD. Travel medicine. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Wilderness
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2012:chap 84.

Freedman DO. Approach to the patient before and after travel. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 286.

Lazarciuc N. Diarrhea. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diarrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diarrhea_thumb.jpg)Diarrhea _Read
more_

![Traveler's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TravelersHealth_thumb.jpg)Traveler's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

