Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002427.htm    
                                Description: Traveling with children presents special challenges. It disrupts familiar routines and imposes new demands. Planning ahead, and involving children in the planning, may lessen the stress of travel.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traveling with children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002427.htm

# Traveling with children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Traveling with children presents special challenges. It disrupts familiar
routines and imposes new demands. Planning ahead, and involving children in
the planning, may lessen the stress of travel.

## Recommendations

Talk to your health care provider before traveling with a child. Children may
have special medical concerns. The provider can also talk to you about any
medicines you might need if your child becomes ill.

Know your child's dosage of common medicines for colds, allergic reactions, or
flu. If your child has a long-term (chronic) illness, consider bringing a copy
of recent medical reports and a list of all medicines your child is taking.

PLANES, TRAINS, BUSES

Bring snacks and familiar foods with you. This helps when travel delays meals
or when the available meals do not suit the child's needs. Small crackers,
unsugared cereals, and string cheese make good snacks. Some children can eat
fruit without problems. Cookies and sugared cereals make for sticky children.

When flying with babies and infants:

    * If you are not breastfeeding, bring powdered formula and buy water after you get through security.
    * If you are breastfeeding, you can bring breast milk in larger quantities than 3 ounces (90 milliliters), as long as you tell security people and let them inspect it.
    * Small jars of baby food travel well. They make little waste and you can dispose of them easily. 

Air travel tends to dehydrate (dry out) people. Drink plenty of water. Women
who are nursing need to drink more fluids.

FLYING AND YOUR CHILD'S EARS

Children often have trouble with pressure changes at takeoff and landing. The
pain and pressure will almost always go away in a few minutes. If your child
has a cold or ear infection, the discomfort may be greater.

Your provider may suggest not flying if your child has an ear infection or a
lot of fluid behind the eardrum. Children who have had ear tubes placed should
do fine.

Some tips to prevent or treat ear pain:

    * Have your child chew sugar-free gum or suck on hard candy when taking off and landing. It helps with ear pressure. Most children can learn to do this at about age 3.
    * Bottles (for infants), breastfeeding, or sucking on pacifiers can also help prevent ear pain.
    * Give your child plenty of fluids during the flight to help unclog the ears.
    * Avoid letting your child sleep during takeoff or landing. Children swallow more often when they are awake. Also, waking up with ear pain can be frightening for the child.
    * Give your child acetaminophen or ibuprofen about 30 minutes before takeoff or landing. Or, use nasal spray or drops before takeoff or landing. Follow package instructions exactly about how much medicine to give your child. 

Ask your doctor before using cold medicines that contain antihistamines or
decongestants.

EATING OUT

Try to maintain your normal meal schedule. Ask that your child be served first
(you can also bring something for your child to munch on). If you call ahead,
some airlines may be able to prepare special kid's meals.

Encourage children to eat normally, but realize that a "poor" diet won't hurt
for a few days.

Be aware of food safety. For example, do not eat raw fruits or vegetables. Eat
only food that is hot and has been cooked thoroughly. And, drink bottled water
not tap water.

ADDITIONAL HELP

Many travel clubs and agencies offer suggestions for traveling with children.
Check with them. Remember to ask airlines, train, or bus companies and hotels
for guidance and assistance.

For foreign travel, check with your provider about vaccines or medicines to
prevent travel-related illness. Also check with embassies or consulate offices
for general information. Many guidebooks and websites list organizations that
help travelers.

## Alternative Names

Ear pain - flying; Ear pain - airplane

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Travelers' health: common
travel health topics. wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/common-travel-health-topics.
Updated August 20, 2014. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Summer AP, Fischer PR. The pediatric and adolescent traveler. In: Keystone JS,
Kozarsky PE, Connor BA, Nothdurft HD, Mendelson M, Leder, K, eds. _Travel
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 23.

Swanson SJ, John CC. Health advice for children traveling internationally. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 175.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Traveler's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TravelersHealth_thumb.jpg)Traveler's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

