Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000641.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10; &#10;Help your child learn how to stand and walk safely with crutches.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crutches and children - standing and walking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000641.htm

# Crutches and children - standing and walking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Help your child learn how to stand and walk safely with crutches.

## Standing with Crutches

Your child has to be able to balance a little to stand with crutches. Tell
your child to hold the head high and look forward, keeping the shoulders back
and the stomach and buttocks tucked in. Have your child stand on his good leg.
Keep the crutches slightly forward and apart.

## Walking with Crutches (No Weight Bearing on Hurt Foot or Leg)

This means that your child cannot put any weight on the hurt foot or leg. The
arms, hands, crutches, and good foot are used to move about. Tell your child
to:

    * Stand on the good foot. Hold the crutches against the side of the body. Squeeze them using the arms and side of body.
    * Move the crutches about one step in front, with the crutches out a little wider than his feet. Move the hurt leg forward with the crutches.
    * Push down on the crutches with his hands on the handgrips. Squeeze the crutches between the arms and sides.
    * Put his weight on the handgrips and move forward.
    * DO NOT lean on the crutches on the armpits. Putting weight on the armpits can hurt, and your child can get a rash and damage nerves and blood vessels under his arm.
    * Hop forward on the good foot just a little in front of the crutches. This is one step.
    * Start the next step by moving the crutches about one step in front with the injured leg.
    * Look ahead when walking, not at the feet. 

## Walking with Crutches (Partial Weight Bearing)

This means that your child can touch the ground with his bad foot to help with
balance. Tell your child to:

    * Stand on the good foot.
    * Move the crutches about one step in front.
    * Put the bad leg forward with the crutch tips. The toes can touch the ground, or a little weight can be put on the foot for balance.
    * Put most of the weight on the handgrips. Squeeze the crutches between the arm and the side of the chest.
    * Take a step with the good leg.
    * Start the next step by moving the crutches about one step in front with the injured leg.
    * Look ahead when walking, not at the feet. 

## References

American Academy of Othopaedic Surgeons website. How to use crutches, canes,
and walkers. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/recovery/how-to-use-crutches-canes-and-
walkers. Updated February 2015. Accessed November 18, 2018.

Edelstein J. Canes, crutches, and walkers. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds.
_Atlas of Orthoses and Assistive Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019 chap 36.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Mobility Aids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

