Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000640.htm    
                                Description: After surgery or an injury, your child may need crutches to walk. Your child needs crutches for support so that no weight is put on your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crutches and children - proper fit and safety tips

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000640.htm

# Crutches and children - proper fit and safety tips

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After surgery or an injury, your child may need crutches to walk. Your child
needs crutches for support so that no weight is put on your child's leg. Using
crutches isn't easy and takes practice. Make sure that your child's crutches
fit right and learn some safety tips.

## Fitting Crutches

Ask your child's health care provider to fit the crutches to your child.
Proper fit makes using crutches easier and keeps your child from getting hurt
when using them. Even if your child is fitted for their crutches:

    * Put the rubber caps on the underarm pads, handgrips, and feet.
    * Adjust the crutches to the right length. With the crutches upright and your child standing, make sure you can put 2 fingers between your child's underarm and the top of the crutches. Crutch pads against the armpit can give your child a rash and put pressure on nerves and blood vessels in the arm. Too much pressure can damage nerves and blood vessels.
    * Adjust the height of the handgrips. They should be where your child's wrists are when their arms are hanging by their side or hip. The elbows should be gently bent when standing up and holding the handgrips.
    * Make sure your child's elbows are slightly bent when starting to use the crutch, then extended when taking a step. 

## Safety Tips

Teach your child to:

    * Always keep crutches nearby in easy reach.
    * Wear shoes that do not slip off.
    * Move slowly. The crutch may get caught on something or slip when you try to move too quickly.
    * Watch for slippery walking surface. Leaves, ice, and snow are all slippery. Slipping is not generally a problem on wet roads or sidewalks if the crutches have rubber tips. But wet crutch tips on indoor floors can be very slippery.
    * Never hang on the crutches. This puts pressure on the arm nerve and can cause damage.
    * Carry a backpack with necessities. This way things are easy to reach and out of the way. 

Things parents can do:

    * Put away things in your home that could cause your child to trip. This includes electrical cords, toys, throw rugs, and clothes on the floor.
    * Talk to the school to give your child extra time to go between classes and to avoid crowds in the hallway. See if your child can ask for permission to use the elevators and avoid stairs.
    * Check the crutch feet for tread. Make sure they are not slippery.
    * Check the screws on the crutches every few days. They get loose easily. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if your child does not seem safe on crutches even after
practicing with you. The provider can refer you to a physical therapist who
can teach your child how to use crutches.

If your child complains of numbing, tingling, or loss of feeling in their arm
or hand, call the provider.

## References

American Academy of Othopaedic Surgeons website. How to use crutches, canes,
and walkers. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/recovery/how-to-use-crutches-canes-and-
walkers. Updated February 2015. Accessed November 18, 2018.

Edelstein J. Canes, crutches, and walkers. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds.
_Atlas of Orthoses and Assistive Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019 chap 36.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Mobility Aids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

