Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000642.htm    
                                Description: Sitting down in a chair and getting up again with crutches can be tricky until your child learns how to do it. Help your child learn how to do this safely.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crutches and children - sitting and getting up from a chair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000642.htm

# Crutches and children - sitting and getting up from a chair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sitting down in a chair and getting up again with crutches can be tricky until
your child learns how to do it. Help your child learn how to do this safely.

## To Sit Down

Your child should:

    * Place the chair against a wall or in a secure place so it cannot move or slide. Use a chair with arm rests.
    * Back up against the chair.
    * Put legs against the front seat of the chair.
    * Hold the crutches at the side and use the other hand to hold the arm of the chair.
    * Use the good leg to lower down in the chair. 
    * Use the arm rests for support if needed.

## To Get Up

Your child should:

    * Slide forward to the edge of the chair.
    * Hold both crutches on his injured side. Lean forward. Hold the chair arm with the other hand.
    * Push up on the handgrip of the crutch and the arm of the chair.
    * Stand up putting weight onto the good leg.
    * Put crutches under the arms to start walking. 

## References

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons website. How to use crutches, canes,
and walkers. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/recovery/how-to-use-crutches-canes-and-
walkers. Updated February 2015. Accessed November 18, 2018.

Edelstein J. Canes, crutches, and walkers. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds.
_Atlas of Othoses and Assistive Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019 chap 36.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Mobility Aids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

