Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000643.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10; &#10;Taking stairs with crutches can be tricky and scary. Learn how to help your child take stairs safely.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crutches and children - stairs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000643.htm

# Crutches and children - stairs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Taking stairs with crutches can be tricky and scary. Learn how to help your
child take stairs safely.

## Taking Stairs with Crutches

Teach your child to put his weight on the uninjured foot and leg when going up
or down stairs. Walk behind your child when going up stairs, and walk in front
of your child when going down stairs.

Your child may find it easier to scoot up and down the steps. Using the hands
and good foot, your child can scoot up or down the stairs using the bottom.

Tell your child to think UP with the good foot or leg and DOWN with the bad
foot or leg.

To go upstairs, tell your child to:

    * Put the good foot on the step and push up.
    * Push down hard on the crutches to help lift up too.
    * Lift the crutches and the bad leg up to the step. Both legs and crutches are on the same step now.
    * Do it one step at a time.
    * Repeat this until completely up the stairs. 

If there is a handrail, have your child hold both crutches in one hand or you
can hold the crutches for them. Hold the handrail with the other. Step up with
the good leg. Bring the crutches up to the step. Repeat for each step.

To go down stairs, tell your child to:

    * Lower the crutches to the step.
    * Put the bad foot out in front and down the step.
    * Balance on the crutches and step down with the good foot. Keep the bad foot out in front.
    * Do it one step at a time. 

## References

American Academy of Othopaedic Surgeons website. How to use crutches, canes,
and walkers. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/recovery/how-to-use-crutches-canes-and-
walkers. Updated February 2015. Accessed November 18, 2018.

Edelstein J. Canes, crutches, and walkers. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds.
_Atlas of Orthoses and Assistive Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019 chap 36.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Mobility Aids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

