Link: https://medlineplus.gov/dislocatedshoulder.html    
                                Description: A dislocated shoulder is an injury that happens when the top of upper arm bone pops out of the socket in your shoulder blade. It is painful and serious, and should be treated right away. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Dislocated Shoulder

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/dislocatedshoulder.html

#  Dislocated Shoulder

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is a dislocated shoulder?

Your shoulder joint is made up of three bones: your collarbone, your shoulder
blade, and your upper arm bone. The top of your upper arm bone is shaped like
a ball. This ball fits into a cuplike socket in your shoulder blade. A
shoulder dislocation is an injury that happens when the ball pops out of your
socket. A dislocation may be partial, where the ball is only partially out of
the socket. It can also be a full dislocation, where the ball is completely
out of the socket.

### What causes a dislocated shoulder?

Your shoulders are the most movable joints in your body. They are also the
most commonly dislocated joints.

The most common causes of shoulder dislocations are

    * Sports injuries
    * Accidents, including traffic accidents
    * Falling on your shoulder or outstretched arm
    * Seizures and electric shocks, which can cause muscle contractions that pull the arm out of place

### Who is at risk for a dislocated shoulder?

A dislocated shoulder can happen to anyone, but they are more common in young
men, who are more often involved in sports and other physical activities.
Older adults, especially women, are also at higher risk because they are more
likely to fall.

### What are the symptoms of a dislocated shoulder?

The symptoms of a dislocated shoulder include

    * Severe shoulder pain
    * Swelling and bruising of your shoulder or upper arm
    * Numbness and/or weakness in your arm, neck, hand, or fingers
    * Trouble moving your arm
    * Your arm seems to be out of place
    * Muscle spasms in your shoulder

If you are having these symptoms, get medical treatment right away.

### How is a dislocated shoulder diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will take a medical history and
examine your shoulder. Your provider may also ask you to get an x-ray to
confirm the diagnosis.

### What are the treatments for a dislocated shoulder?

The treatment for dislocated shoulder usually involves three steps:

    * The first step is a **closed reduction,** a procedure in which your health care provider puts the ball of your upper arm back into the socket. You may first get medicine to relieve the pain and relax your shoulder muscles. Once the joint is back in place, the severe pain should end.
    * The second step is **wearing a sling** or other device to keep your shoulder in place. You will wear it for a few days to several weeks.
    * The third step is **rehabilitation,** once the pain and swelling have improved. You will do exercises to improve your range of motion and strengthen your muscles.

You may need surgery if you injure the tissues or nerves around the shoulder
or if you get repeated dislocations.

A dislocation can make your shoulder unstable. When that happens, it takes
less force to dislocate it. This means that there is a higher risk of it
happening again. Your health care provider may ask you to continue doing some
exercises to prevent another dislocation.

## Start Here

    * Dislocated Shoulder (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)

## Symptoms

    * Dislocated Shoulder: Symptoms and Causes (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Dislocated Shoulder: Diagnosis and Treatment (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder MRI (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Chronic Shoulder Instability (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Shoulder Trauma (Fractures and Dislocations) (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Shoulder joint dislocation ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Shoulder Dislocation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Global Perspectives on Management of Shoulder Instability: Decision Making and Treatment.
    * Article: Does the ZipTightTM effective to maintain reduction after the treatment of...
    * Article: Sonoarthrographic examination of posterior labrocapsular structures of the shoulder joint.
    * Dislocated Shoulder -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Closed reduction of a fractured bone (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Closed reduction of a fractured bone - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Dislocated shoulder - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder CT scan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shoulder MRI scan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DislocatedShoulder.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Closed reduction of a fractured bone
    * Closed reduction of a fractured bone - aftercare
    * Dislocated shoulder - aftercare
    * Shoulder CT scan
    * Shoulder joint dislocation
    * Shoulder MRI scan

## Related Health Topics

    * Dislocations
    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders
    * Sports Injuries

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Dislocated Shoulder is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 7 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

