Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000134.htm    
                                Description: Silicosis is a lung disease caused by breathing in (inhaling) silica dust.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Silicosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000134.htm

# Silicosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Silicosis is a lung disease caused by breathing in (inhaling) silica dust.

## Causes

Silica is a common, naturally-occurring crystal. It is found in most rock
beds. Silica dust forms during mining, quarrying, tunneling, and working withÂ
certain metal ores. Silica is a main part of sand, so glass workers and sand-
blasters are also exposed to silica.

Three types of silicosis occur:

    * Chronic silicosis, which results from long-term exposure (more than 20 years) to low amounts of silica dust. The silica dust causes swelling in the lungs and chest lymph nodes. This disease may cause people to have trouble breathing. This is the most common form of silicosis.
    * Accelerated silicosis, whichÂ occurs after exposure to larger amounts of silica over a shorter period of time (5Â to 15 years). Swelling in the lungs and symptoms occur faster than in simple silicosis.
    * Acute silicosis, whichÂ results from short-term exposure to very large amounts of silica. The lungs become very inflamed and can fill with fluid, causing severe shortness of breath and a low blood oxygen level.

People who work in jobs where they are exposed to silica dust are at risk.
These jobs include:

    * Abrasives manufacturing
    * Glass manufacturing
    * Mining
    * Quarrying
    * Road and building construction
    * Sand blasting
    * Stone cutting

Intense exposure to silica can cause disease within a year. ButÂ it usually
takes at least 10Â to 15 years of exposure before symptoms occur. Silicosis
has become less common since the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) created regulations requiring the use of protective equipment, which
limits the amount of silica dust workers inhale.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take a medical history. You'll be asked about
your jobs (past and present), hobbies, and other activities that may have
exposed you to silica. The provider will also do a physical exam.

Tests to confirm the diagnosis and rule out similar diseases include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT scan
    * Pulmonary function tests
    * Tests for tuberculosis
    * BloodÂ tests for connective tissue diseases

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for silicosis. Removing the source of silica
exposure is important to prevent the disease from getting worse. Supportive
treatment includes cough medicine, bronchodilators, and oxygen if needed.
Antibiotics are prescribed for respiratory infections as needed.

Treatment also includes limiting exposure to irritants andÂ quitting smoking.

People with silicosis are at high riskÂ of developing tuberculosis (TB).
Silica is believed to interfere with the body's immune response to the
bacteria that cause TB. Skin tests to check for exposure to TB should be done
regularly. Those with a positive skin test should be treated with anti-TB
drugs. Any change in the appearance of the chest x-ray may be a sign of TB.

People with severe silicosis may need to have a lung transplant.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where you can meet other people with silicosis or
related diseases can help you understand your disease and adapt to its
treatments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome varies, depending on the amount of damage to the lungs.

## Possible Complications

Silicosis can lead to the following health problems:  

    * Connective tissue disease, including rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma (also called progressive systemic sclerosis), and systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Lung cancer
    * Progressive massive fibrosis
    * Respiratory failure
    * Tuberculosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you suspect that you have been exposed to silica at work
and you have breathing problems. Having silicosis makes it easier for you to
develop lung infections. Talk to your provider about getting the flu and
pneumonia vaccines.

If you've been diagnosed with silicosis, call your provider right away if you
develop a cough, shortness of breath, fever, or other signs of a lung
infection, especially if you think you have the flu. Since your lungs are
already damaged, it's very important to have the infection treated promptly.
This will prevent breathing problems from becoming severe, as well as further
damage to your lungs.

## Prevention

If you work in a high-risk occupation or have a high-risk hobby, always wear a
dust mask and do not smoke. You might also want to use other protection
recommended by OSHA, such as a respirator.

## Alternative Names

Acute silicosis; Chronic silicosis; Accelerated silicosis; Progressive massive
fibrosis; Conglomerate silicosis; Silicoproteinosis

## Images

    * ![Coal worker's lungs - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1599t.jpg)Coal worker's lungs - chest x-ray
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1601t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1602t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1604t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Cowie RL, Becklake MR. Pneumoconioses. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![Occupational
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OccupationalHealth_thumb.jpg)Occupational
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

