Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001089.htm    
                                Description: Byssinosis is a disease of the lungs. It is caused by breathing in cotton dust or dusts from other vegetable fibers such as flax, hemp, or sisal while at work.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Byssinosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001089.htm

# Byssinosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Byssinosis is a disease of the lungs. It is caused by breathing in cotton dust
or dusts from other vegetable fibers such as flax, hemp, or sisal while at
work.

## Causes

Breathing in (inhaling) the dust produced by raw cotton can cause byssinosis.
It is most common in people who work in the textile industry.

Those who are sensitive to the dust can have an asthma-like condition after
being exposed.

Methods of prevention in the United States have reduced the number of cases.
Byssinosis is still common in developing countries. Smoking increases riskÂ of
developing this disease. Being exposed to the dust many times can lead toÂ
long-term (chronic) lung disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest tightness
    * Cough
    * Wheezing
    * Shortness of breath

Symptoms are worse at the beginning of the work week and improve later in the
week. Symptoms are also less severe when the person is away from the
workplace.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take a detailed medical history. You'll be
asked whether your symptoms relate to certain exposures or times of exposure.
The provider will also do a physical exam, paying special attention to the
lungs.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT scan
    * Lung function tests

## Treatment

The most important treatment is to stop being exposed to the dust. Reducing
dust levels in the factory (by improving machinery or ventilation) will help
prevent byssinosis. Some people may have to change jobs to avoid further
exposure.

Medicines used for asthma, such as bronchodilators, usually improve symptoms.
Corticosteroid drugs may be prescribed in more severe cases.

Stopping smoking is very important for people with this condition. Breathing
treatments, including nebulizers, may be prescribed if the condition becomes
long-term. Home oxygen therapy may be needed if blood oxygen level is low.

Physical exercise programs, breathing exercises, and patient education
programs are often helpful for people with a long-term (chronic)Â lung
disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms usually improve after stopping exposure to the dust. Continued
exposure can lead to reduced lung function. In the United States, worker's
compensation may be available to people with byssinosis.

## Possible Complications

Chronic bronchitis may develop.Â This is swelling (inflammation) of the large
airways of the lungs with a large amount of phlegm production.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of byssinosis.

Call your provider if you suspect that you have been exposed to cotton or
other fiber dust at work and you have breathing problems. Having byssinosis
makes it easier for you to develop lung infections.

Talk to your provider about getting the flu and pneumonia vaccines.

If you've been diagnosed with byssinosis, call your provider right away if you
develop a cough, shortness of breath, fever, or other signs of a lung
infection, especially if you think you have the flu. Since your lungs are
already damaged, it's very important to have the infection treated right away.
This will prevent breathing problems from becoming severe. It will also
prevent further damage to your lungs.

## Prevention

Controlling dust, using face masks, and other measures can reduce the risk.
Stop smoking, especially if you work in textile manufacturing.

## Alternative Names

Cotton worker's lung; Cotton bract disease; Mill fever; Brown lung disease;
Monday fever

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs

## References

Cowie RL, Becklake MR. Pneumoconioses. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![Occupational
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OccupationalHealth_thumb.jpg)Occupational
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

