Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000609.htm    
                                Description: Most women who are pregnant can keep working during their pregnancy. Some women are able to work right up until they are ready to deliver. Others may need to cut back on their hours or stop working before    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pregnancy and work

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000609.htm

# Pregnancy and work

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most women who are pregnant can keep working during their pregnancy. Some
women are able to work right up until they are ready to deliver. Others may
need to cut back on their hours or stop working before their due date.

Whether you can work or not depends on:

    * Your health
    * The health of the baby
    * The type of job you have

Below are some factors that affect your ability to work.

## Heavy Lifting

If your job requires heavy lifting, you may need to stop working or reduce
your work hours. Most women are advised to only lift things that weigh under
20 pounds (9 kilograms) during pregnancy. Repetitively lifting heavier amounts
often causes back injury or disability.

## Exposure to Workplace Hazards

If you work in a job where you are around hazards (poisons or toxins), you may
need to change your role until after the baby is born. Some hazards that may
pose a threat to your baby include:

    * Hair colorants: When pregnant, avoid getting or giving hair treatments. Your hands could absorb the chemicals in the color.
    * Chemotherapy drugs: These are drugs used to treat people with health problems like cancer. They are very strong drugs. They may affect health care workers like nurses or pharmacists.
    * Lead: You could be exposed to lead if you work in lead smelting, paint/battery/glass making, printing, ceramics, pottery glazing, toll booths, and heavily traveled roads.
    * Ionizing radiation: This applies to x-ray techs and people who work in some types of research. Also, airline flight attendants or pilots may need to reduce their flying time during pregnancy to reduce their radiation exposure. 
Ask your employer about any hazards or poisons in your workplace:

    * Are the levels toxic?
    * Is the workplace ventilated (Is there proper airflow to let the chemicals out)?
    * What system is in place to protect workers from hazards? 

## Carpal Tunnel

If you work on a computer, you may notice numbness or tingling in your hands.
This may be carpal tunnel syndrome. The numbness and tingling is caused by
your body holding onto extra fluid.

The fluid causes swelling of tissues, which pinch down on the nerves in the
hands. It is common in pregnancy as women retain extra fluid.

The symptoms may come and go. They often feel worse at night. Most often, they
get better after you give birth. If the pain is causing you problems, you can
try a few things for relief:

    * If you work at a computer, adjust the height of your chair so your wrists aren't bent downward as you type.
    * Take short breaks to move your arms and stretch your hands.
    * Try a wrist or hand brace or an ergonomic keyboard.
    * Sleep with a splint or brace on your hands, or prop your arms on pillows.
    * If pain or tingling wakes you up at night, shake your hands until it goes away. 

If your symptoms get worse or affect your daily life, talk to your health care
provider.

## Stress

Stress at work, and everywhere else, is a normal part of life. But too much
stress can lead to health problems for you and your baby. Stress can also
affect how well your body can fight off infection or disease.

A few tips to deal with stress:

    * Talk about your worries with your partner or a friend.
    * See your provider for regular prenatal care.
    * Follow a healthy diet and stay active.
    * Get plenty of sleep each night.
    * Meditate. 

Ask for help when you need it. If you are having a hard time dealing with
stress, tell your provider. Your provider may refer you to a counselor or
therapist who can help you better manage the stress in your life.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - work

## References

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Hobel CJ, Williams J. Antepartum care: preconception and prenatal care,
genetic evaluation and teratology, and antenatal fetal assessment. In: Hacker
NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. Exposure to
toxic environmental agents. www.acog.org/-/media/Committee-Opinions/Committee-
on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/ExposuretoToxic.pdf. Updated October
2013.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Occupational Health
    * Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

