Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000762.htm    
                                Description: You do not need a pricey gym membership or fancy equipment to get regular exercise. With a little creativity, you can find many ways to exercise for little or no money.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercising on a budget

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000762.htm

# Exercising on a budget

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You do not need a pricey gym membership or fancy equipment to get regular
exercise. With a little creativity, you can find many ways to exercise for
little or no money.

If you have heart disease or diabetes, be sure you check with your health care
provider before starting to exercise.

## Take a Walk

Walking is one of the easiest and least expensive forms of exercise. All you
need is a pair of comfortable shoes. Walking gives you a great workout that
you can tailor to your own fitness level. Plus, you can find many ways to add
walking to your day:

    * Walk the dog
    * Walk with your kids, family, or friends
    * Do a mall walk in bad weather
    * Walk to work, or get off the bus or subway early and walk part of the way
    * Take a walk at lunch or on your work break
    * Walk to errands and appointments
    * Join a walking club 

Just make sure you are walking fast enough to benefit your health. If you can
talk, but not sing your favorite lyrics, you are walking at a moderate pace.
Start at this pace, and go faster as you get fitter. You can also buy a
pedometer that will track your steps. Many will calculate calories burned and
distance, too.

## Create a Home Gym

You do not need expensive exercise gear and equipment to have a home gym. By
making the most of what you already have, you can work out at home without
breaking the bank.

    *  **Use cans or bottles as weights.** Make your own weights by using canned goods or by filling used soda bottles with water or sand.
    *  **Make your own resistance bands.** Old nylons or tights make great substitutes for resistance bands.
    *  **Use chairs and stools.** Chairs can work as props for doing certain exercises, such as leg lifts. A low, sturdy stool can be used for step training.
    *  **Hit the stairs.** Who needs a stair machine when you have the old-fashioned kind in your house? You can create your own stair workout by walking up and down your stairs. Play some music to keep you going, and increase your workout by a song each time.
    *  **Get fitness DVDs or video games.** Look for used copies or borrow them from your local library.
    *  **Look for used equipment.** If you have a little money to spend, you can find deals on used fitness equipment at yard sales and thrift shops.
    *  **Invest in cheaper fitness items.** Buying a few small fitness tools can help you vary your workout. A fitness ball can help strengthen your abs and improve your balance. Use a jump rope for a great cardio workout.
    *  **Use technology.** Need a little help planning your workouts or staying motivated? Use smart phone apps or computer programs to help you plan and track your workouts. Many are free, and some cost just a small amount of money. 

## Use Your Own Body Weight

Whether you work out indoors at home or outdoors, there are many exercises you
can do that use your own body weight to help you tone muscle. These include:

    * Lunges
    * Squats
    * Push-ups
    * Crunches
    * Jumping jacks
    * Leg or arm raises 

To make sure you use proper form, go to the online exercise library at the
American Council on Exercise. They also have sample workout routines you can
try.

## Look for Low-cost Fitness Options

Many sports and activities are free or cost little to begin with.

    *  **Free classes.** Many cities and towns offer free fitness classes for the public. Check your local paper or look online to find out what's available in your area. Older adults may find inexpensive classes at a local senior center.
    *  **Use local courts.** Most communities have public basketball and tennis courts.
    *  **Go swimming.** Find a local pool or lake and go for a swim.
    *  **Try other low-cost options.** Try ice-skating, jogging, hiking, volleyball, or in-line skating. Even cycling is affordable if you dust off an old bike or buy a used one. 

## Alternative Names

Exercise - budget; Weight loss - Exercise; Obesity - exercise

## References

American Council on Exercise website. Exercise library.
www.acefitness.org/acefit/fitness-for-me. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Buchner DM. Physical activity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

