

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Surveillance System

![Chronic Kidney Disease \(CKD\) Surveillance
System](images/graphic_identifier.png)

![Chronic Kidney Disease \(CKD\) is a condition in which your kidneys are
damaged and cannot filter blood as well as healthy kidneys. Because of this,
wastes from the blood remain in the body and may cause other health
problems.](images/ImageCarousel_V2-01.png)

![Adults With diabetes or high blood pressure have a higher risk of developing
CKD](images/ImageCarousel_V2-03.png)

![Most people with CKD are not aware of their disease and do not seek
appropriate treatment](images/ImageCarousel_V2-02.png)

![The only way to find out for sure whether you have CKD is through specifc
blood and urine tests](images/ImageCarousel_V2-04.png)

![ore than 1 in 7 US adults are estimated to have CKD - that is about 30
million people](images/ImageCarousel_V2-05.png)

Section Navigation

TP Docs Home

Chronic Kidney Disease Home > CKD Surveillance Home > Browse By Topic

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

FAQs |  Glossary |  Data Sources |  Bibliography |  Complete Indicator List |
Contact Us

Prevalence and  
Incidence

View Prevalence and Incidence Summary

Prevalence of CKD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages Among U.S. Adults, 1988-1994 vs. 1999-2006 vs. 2007-2014 vs. 2015-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevalence Ratio of CKD Stages Among U.S. Adults, 1988-1994 vs. 2007-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages Among U.S. Adults by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages 1-4 Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages 1-4 Among U.S. Adults Adjusted by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Albuminuria Among U.S. Adults by CKD Stage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Prevalence by Hypertension Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Prevalence by Diabetes Mellitus Status



Prevalence of CKD in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Veterans by Gender, Age, Race, Diabetes, and Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Veterans Stratified by Gender, Age, Race, Diabetes and Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages 3-5 Among U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treated ESRD in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESRD Among U.S. Residents Adjusted by Age, Gender, Race
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESRD in the U.S. by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD or ESRD Among U.S. Adults with ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM Codes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Adults with an ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM Code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevalence of CKD by U.S. State

Prevalence of CKD Towards Tracking Healthy People 2020 Goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Adults, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target



Incidence of CKD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of CKD Stages 3-5 in a Study Cohort![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Incidence of CKD in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of Treated End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases Adjusted by Treated End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of ESRD by U.S. State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of Individual CKD Stages/eGFR Categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of CKD Stage 3-5

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Awareness

View Awareness Summary

Person Awareness of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of CKD Among U.S. Adults with Albuminuria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of CKD Among U.S. Adults with CKD Stage 3 or 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of Important Health Problems Among African Americans![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of CKD Risk Factors Among African Americans![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Perceived CKD Risk Among African Americans![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)



Provider Awareness of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD with ICD-9-CM Codes Among U.S. Veterans with CKD Stages 3-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physicians' Reporting of Perceived CKD Risk Factors![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Influencing Physicians Treatment of CKD by Guidelines![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctly Identifying CKD and Recommending Referral to Nephrologist![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trainees Choosing Indicators for Nephrology by Post-graduate Year and CKD Clinical Experience![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)



CKD Awareness Towards Tracking HP2020 Goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Awareness Among U.S. Adults with CKD, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Burden of  
Risk Factors

View Burden of Risk Factors Summary

Diabetes in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Awareness, Treatment and Control Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Self-reported Having Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Adjusted by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Among U.S. Adults

Diabetes in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Adults with a Diagnosis of Diabetes

Hypertension in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Awareness, Treatment, and Control Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Self-reported Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Adjusted by Age

Hypertension in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Veterans with a Diagnosis of Hypertension by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Veterans with a Diagnosis of Hypertension by Age and Gender
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Veterans with a Diagnosis of Hypertension by Age and Race/Ethnicity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Adults with a Diagnosis of Hypertension



Obesity in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overweight or Obesity by Survey Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overweight or Obese U.S. Residents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overweight or Obesity Adjusted by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Abdominal Obesity by Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Abdominal Obesity in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Abdominal Obesity Adjusted by Age

CVD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Disease by Type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Disease by Survey Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Crude Percentage with Cardiovascular Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Disease Adjusted by Age

Smoking in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Smoking in the General Population
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Crude Percentage Who Smoke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current and Past Smoking Adjusted by Age

Age in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimated and Projected Population in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Projected U.S. Population by Age



Age in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Age of U.S. Adults

Race/Ethnicity in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimated and Projected U.S. Population by Race/Ethnicity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Projected U.S. Population by Race/Ethnicity

Race/Ethnicity in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Adults by Race/Ethnicity

Family History of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kidney Function by eGFR![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family History of ESRD![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Dialysis-requiring AKI in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Incidence of Dialysis-requiring AKI in the General Population![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Food Insecurity in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Trends of Food Insecurity and Chronic Kidney Disease in the United States

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Health  
Consequences

View Health Consequences Summary

Mortality in CKD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Mortality Among U.S. Adults by eGFR and Albuminuria![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Mortality in CKD in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mortality Rates by eGFR Category/stage

Physical and Mental Functioning in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physical Functioning Limitation by CKD Status in U.S. Adults Aged â¥65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physical Functioning Limitation by CKD Status in U.S. Adults Aged 20-64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cognitive Function by Kidney Function Among Adults with CKD![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reporting of Various Sleep Symptoms by CKD Stage Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports of Disability by CKD Status Among U.S. Adults Aged â¥65



Cardiovascular Events in CKD in the Health Care Delivery System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Acute Coronary Syndrome Rates by eGFR Category![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Failure Hospitalization Rates by eGFR Category![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Mortality in CKD in the Health Care Delivery System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mortality Rates by eGFR Category![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Risk Factors for Progression of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Among U.S. Adults with CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Among U.S. Adults with CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Smoking Status Among U.S. Adults with CKD



Progression

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * One-year Progression of CKD in U.S. Veterans

Medical Expenditures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Expenditures of CKD in U.S. Medicare Population![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Risk Factors for CKD Complications Towards Tracking HP2020 Goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Among U.S. Adults with CKD, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hyperlipidemia Among U.S. Adults with CKD, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Quality  
of Care

View Quality of Care Summary

Laboratory Testing for CKD in the Health Care System

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients with a Procedure Code for a Serum Creatinine Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Serum Creatinine Testing in U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Albuminuria Testing Among U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Serum Creatinine Testing Following Discharge Among Veterans with In-hospital AKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Albuminuria Testing Following Discharge Among Veterans with In-hospital AKI



Nephrology Care Prior to ESRD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Timing of Pre-ESRD Care Among Incident ESRD Patients![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Timing of Pre-ESRD Care and First-year Mortality![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nephrologist Care Among U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Predictors of Pre-ESRD Care![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nephrology Appointment Following Discharge Among Veterans with In-hospital AKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Nephrology Care



Use of Medications in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NSAID Use in Persons With and Without CKD Among U.S. Adults![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prescribed NSAIDs Use Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ACE/ARB Use Among Veterans with CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ACE/ARB Use Among Veterans with CKD and Diabetes

Blood Pressure Treatment and Control in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Pressure Treatment and Control Among Adults with CKD![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

CKD Detection

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of CKD Among Primary Care Patients with Diabetes![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Medication Use

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antihypertensive Medication Use Among U.S. Adults![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Antihypertensive Medication Use Among U.S. Adults![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Health Care  
System Capacity

View Health Care System Capacity Summary

Reporting of eGFR and Use of Calibrated Creatinine by U.S. Laboratories

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Reporting of eGFR Using Creatinine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequency of Laboratory Reporting of eGFR Using Creatinine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Reporting Using IDMS-Traceable Creatinine Calibration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eGFR Reporting Using Serum Creatinine by Volume of Testing![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequency of eGFR Reporting with Serum Creatinine![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimating Equations Used by Laboratories Reporting eGFR![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eGFR Reporting Convention Used Among Laboratories![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)



Laboratory Reporting of eGFR in the Health Care System

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patients with Coreported eGFR with Serum Creatinine in VA Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coreporting of eGFR with Serum Creatinine in VA Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coreporting of eGFR in VA Facilities

Insurance Status in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports of Health Insurance in U.S. Adults Aged <65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports of Health Insurance in U.S. Adults Aged <65 with CKD



Availability of Dialysis and Transplant Facilities in the United States

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dialysis Facilities and Patients Treated by Dialysis in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transplant Facilities and Patients Receiving Kidney Transplants in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESRD Facilities by U.S. State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Staffing Positions at Dialysis Facilities in the U.S.

Number of Nephrologists and Primary Care Providers in the United States

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Primary Care Physicians by Specialty in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nephrologists in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Primary Care Physicians by U.S. State

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Prevalence and Incidence

View Prevalence and Incidence Summary

Prevalence of CKD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages Among U.S. Adults, 1988-1994 vs. 1999-2006 vs. 2007-2014 vs. 2015-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevalence Ratio of CKD Stages Among U.S. Adults, 1988-1994 vs. 2007-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages Among U.S. Adults by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages 1-4 Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages 1-4 Among U.S. Adults Adjusted by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Albuminuria Among U.S. Adults by CKD Stage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Prevalence by Hypertension Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Prevalence by Diabetes Mellitus Status

Prevalence of CKD in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Veterans by Gender, Age, Race, Diabetes, and Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Veterans Stratified by Gender, Age, Race, Diabetes and Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Stages 3-5 Among U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treated ESRD in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESRD Among U.S. Residents Adjusted by Age, Gender, Race
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESRD in the U.S. by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD or ESRD Among U.S. Adults with ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM Codes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Adults with an ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM Code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevalence of CKD by U.S. State

Prevalence of CKD Towards Tracking Healthy People 2020 Goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Among U.S. Adults, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target

Incidence of CKD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of CKD Stages 3-5 in a Study Cohort ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Incidence of CKD in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of Treated End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases Adjusted by Treated End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of ESRD by U.S. State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of Individual CKD Stages/eGFR Categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Cases of CKD Stage 3-5

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Awareness

View Awareness Summary

Person Awareness of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of CKD Among U.S. Adults with Albuminuria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of CKD Among U.S. Adults with CKD Stage 3 or 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of Important Health Problems Among African Americans ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Awareness of CKD Risk Factors Among African Americans ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Perceived CKD Risk Among African Americans ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Provider Awareness of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD with ICD-9-CM Codes Among U.S. Veterans with CKD Stages 3-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physicians' Reporting of Perceived CKD Risk Factors ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Influencing Physicians Treatment of CKD by Guidelines ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Correctly Identifying CKD and Recommending Referral to Nephrologist ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trainees Choosing Indicators for Nephrology by Post-graduate Year and CKD Clinical Experience ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

CKD Awareness Towards Tracking HP2020 Goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CKD Awareness Among U.S. Adults with CKD, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Burden of Risk Factors

View Burden of Risk Factors Summary

Diabetes in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Awareness, Treatment and Control Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Self-reported Having Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Adjusted by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Among U.S. Adults

Diabetes in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Adults with a Diagnosis of Diabetes

Hypertension in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Awareness, Treatment, and Control Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Self-reported Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Adjusted by Age

Hypertension in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Veterans with a Diagnosis of Hypertension by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Veterans with a Diagnosis of Hypertension by Age and Gender
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Veterans with a Diagnosis of Hypertension by Age and Race/Ethnicity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Adults with a Diagnosis of Hypertension

Obesity in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overweight or Obesity by Survey Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overweight or Obese U.S. Residents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overweight or Obesity Adjusted by Age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Abdominal Obesity by Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Abdominal Obesity in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Abdominal Obesity Adjusted by Age

CVD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Disease by Type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Disease by Survey Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Crude Percentage with Cardiovascular Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Disease Adjusted by Age

Smoking in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Smoking in the General Population
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Crude Percentage Who Smoke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current and Past Smoking Adjusted by Age

Age in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimated and Projected Population in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Projected U.S. Population by Age

Age in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Age of U.S. Adults

Race/Ethnicity in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimated and Projected U.S. Population by Race/Ethnicity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Projected U.S. Population by Race/Ethnicity

Race/Ethnicity in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Adults by Race/Ethnicity

Family History of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kidney Function by eGFR ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family History of ESRD ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Dialysis-requiring AKI in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Incidence of Dialysis-requiring AKI in the General Population ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Food Insecurity in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Trends of Food Insecurity and Chronic Kidney Disease in the United States

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Health Consequences

View Health Consequences Summary

Mortality in CKD in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cardiovascular Mortality Among U.S. Adults by eGFR and Albuminuria ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Mortality in CKD in the Health Care System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mortality Rates by eGFR Category/stage

Physical and Mental Functioning in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physical Functioning Limitation by CKD Status in U.S. Adults Aged â¥65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physical Functioning Limitation by CKD Status in U.S. Adults Aged 20-64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cognitive Function by Kidney Function Among Adults with CKD ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reporting of Various Sleep Symptoms by CKD Stage Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports of Disability by CKD Status Among U.S. Adults Aged â¥65

Cardiovascular Events in CKD in the Health Care Delivery System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Acute Coronary Syndrome Rates by eGFR Category ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Failure Hospitalization Rates by eGFR Category ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Mortality in CKD in the Health Care Delivery System Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mortality Rates by eGFR Category ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Risk Factors for Progression of CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes Among U.S. Adults with CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Among U.S. Adults with CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Smoking Status Among U.S. Adults with CKD

Progression

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * One-year Progression of CKD in U.S. Veterans

Medical Expenditures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Expenditures of CKD in U.S. Medicare Population ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Risk Factors for CKD Complications Towards Tracking HP2020 Goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension Among U.S. Adults with CKD, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hyperlipidemia Among U.S. Adults with CKD, 1999-2004 vs. 2005-2010 vs. 2020 Target

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Quality of Care

View Quality of Care Summary

Laboratory Testing for CKD in the Health Care System

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients with a Procedure Code for a Serum Creatinine Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Serum Creatinine Testing in U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Albuminuria Testing Among U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Serum Creatinine Testing Following Discharge Among Veterans with In-hospital AKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Albuminuria Testing Following Discharge Among Veterans with In-hospital AKI

Nephrology Care Prior to ESRD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Timing of Pre-ESRD Care Among Incident ESRD Patients ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Timing of Pre-ESRD Care and First-year Mortality ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nephrologist Care Among U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Predictors of Pre-ESRD Care ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nephrology Appointment Following Discharge Among Veterans with In-hospital AKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends in Nephrology Care

Use of Medications in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NSAID Use in Persons With and Without CKD Among U.S. Adults ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prescribed NSAIDs Use Among U.S. Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ACE/ARB Use Among Veterans with CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ACE/ARB Use Among Veterans with CKD and Diabetes

Blood Pressure Treatment and Control in CKD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Pressure Treatment and Control Among Adults with CKD ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

CKD Detection

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of CKD Among Primary Care Patients with Diabetes ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Medication Use

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antihypertensive Medication Use Among U.S. Adults ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Antihypertensive Medication Use Among U.S. Adults ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

Health Care System Capacity

View Health Care System Capacity Summary

Reporting of eGFR and Use of Calibrated Creatinine by U.S. Laboratories

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Reporting of eGFR Using Creatinine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequency of Laboratory Reporting of eGFR Using Creatinine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Reporting Using IDMS-Traceable Creatinine Calibration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eGFR Reporting Using Serum Creatinine by Volume of Testing ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequency of eGFR Reporting with Serum Creatinine ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Estimating Equations Used by Laboratories Reporting eGFR ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eGFR Reporting Convention Used Among Laboratories ![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not available](images/bookicon.PNG)

Laboratory Reporting of eGFR in the Health Care System

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Patients with Coreported eGFR with Serum Creatinine in VA Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coreporting of eGFR with Serum Creatinine in VA Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coreporting of eGFR in VA Facilities

Insurance Status in the General Population

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports of Health Insurance in U.S. Adults Aged <65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports of Health Insurance in U.S. Adults Aged <65 with CKD

Availability of Dialysis and Transplant Facilities in the United States

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dialysis Facilities and Patients Treated by Dialysis in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transplant Facilities and Patients Receiving Kidney Transplants in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESRD Facilities by U.S. State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Staffing Positions at Dialysis Facilities in the U.S.

Number of Nephrologists and Primary Care Providers in the United States

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Primary Care Physicians by Specialty in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nephrologists in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Primary Care Physicians by U.S. State

![Published literature or one-time analysis, ongoing surveillance not
available](images/bookicon.PNG)=Published literature or one-time analysis,
ongoing surveillance not available

###  Focus on Special Populations

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children and Adolescents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Solid Organ Transplant Population
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Native Americans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Polycystic Kidney Disease Population

###  Primary Care and Prevention Indicators

Find topics of interest about the primary care and prevention of CKD.

###  Focus on Risk Factors and Themes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Age 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypertension 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Race/Ethnicity 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) 

###  New Indicators!

Seven new indicators of CKD have been added to the resources on this site.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Age of Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients with a Diagnosis of Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients with a Diagnosis of Hypertension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients by Race/Ethnicity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * One-year Progression of CKD in U.S. Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients with an ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM Code Indicating CKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Percentage of Patients with ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM Codes Indicating CKD or ESRD

View all indicators

###  New Tools!

CKD Calculators ( _estimate individual risk_ )  

Probability of CKD  
Progression of CKD

  
Disparity Explorer ( _examine population differences_ )

Explore Disparities

###  Emerging Topics

Surveillance investigators identify topics where new evidence is emerging.  
  

View Surveillance Emerging Topics

  

###  _Healthy People 2020_

Healthy People 2020 provides national objectives for improving the health of
all Americans. Fourteen (14) objectives focus on kidney disease, including
end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Several indicators from the CKD Surveillance
System provide related information for these objectives.

View Surveillance System Indicators related to Healthy People 2020 objectives

![Healthy People 2020](images/healthyPeople.jpg)

Go to official Healthy People 2020 Web Site

###  CKD Fact Sheet

View national estimates and general information regarding CKD in the United
States.

###  CKD Initiative

The Chronic Kidney Disease Initiative is designed to provide comprehensive
public health strategies for promoting kidney health.  
Learn more...  

###  CKD Surveillance Publications and Resources

Research articles on various CKD topics published by the Surveillance Team as
part of the CKD Surveillance project

  

**Suggested Citation:**

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Chronic Kidney Disease
Surveillance SystemâUnited States.  
website. http://www.cdc.gov/ckd

  

![Learn more this National Kidney Month](./images/fifteen-percent.jpg)

  
  

###  Are You Aware?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * March 2020 \- One in Four Adults With Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Is Food Insecure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * January 2020 \- Frequency of Testing for Albuminuria Is Low in Clinical Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * September 2019 \- Cardiovascular Disease Is Common in Older US Adults and Is the Leading Cause of Death in People With Chronic Kidney Disease
  
View All

####   Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address  
What's this? Submit What's this? Submit Button

###  Patient-Focused Information

![Patient Focus - Hands image](images/Hands.png) The information on this site
is designed to provide a picture of CKD in the country and reports aggregate
data on various groups of people in the United States.

Information for people living with kidney disease, or at risk of developing
kidney disease, and their friends and family members is available from the
National Kidney Disease Education Program.

#### Help us meet your needs

×

##### For what purpose are you visiting this site?

Research Project  
Teaching or Presentation  
Public Health Practice or Policy  
Grant or Proposal Preparation  
Patient Care or Patient Education  
Other_

  

_Date Site Last Updated:_ **March 20, 2020**  
_Current Site Version:_ **6.3.2**

  

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

