Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsandpregnancy.html    
                                Description: HIV positive and pregnant or thinking about HIV and pregnancy? Learn how to protect your own health and lower your risk of passing HIV to your baby.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsandpregnancy.html

#  HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

If you are pregnant and have HIV/AIDS,there is a risk of passing HIV to your
baby. It can happen in three ways:

    * During pregnancy
    * During childbirth, especially if it is vaginal childbirth. In some cases, your doctor may suggest doing a Cesarean section to lower the risk during childbirth.
    * During breastfeeding

You can greatly lower that risk by taking HIV/AIDS medicines. These medicines
will also help protect your health. Since some medicines are not safe for
babies, it is important to talk with your health care provider about which
ones you should take. Then you need to make sure you take your medicines
regularly.

Your baby will get HIV/AIDS medicines for 4 to 6 weeks after birth. The
medicines protect your baby from infection from any HIV that passed from you
during childbirth. Your baby will get several tests to check for HIV over the
first few months.

Some pregnant women with HIV/AIDS may not know that they have it. So it is
important that all women who are pregnant or planning to get pregnant have an
HIV test as early as possible. Because most pregnant women with HIV/AIDS and
their babies take HIV/AIDS medicines, few babies in the United States get HIV.

## Start Here

    * HIV and Pregnancy (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
    * Pregnancy and Childbirth (AIDS.gov)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Preventing Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * HIV among Pregnant Women, Infants, and Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Maternal HIV infection and risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes in Hunan...
    * Article: Do You See Me?
    * Article: Combination Antiretroviral Therapy and Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy.
    * HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * AIDSinfo Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * AIDSinfo ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish
    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * HIV.gov (AIDS.gov)
    * NIAID Division of AIDS ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

    * HIV/AIDS - pregnancy and infants (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![HIV/AIDS and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSandPregnancy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * HIV/AIDS - pregnancy and infants

## Related Health Topics

    * HIV/AIDS
    * HIV/AIDS and Infections
    * HIV/AIDS Medicines
    * HIV: PrEP and PEP
    * Living with HIV/AIDS

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _HIV/AIDS and
Pregnancy_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 October 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

