Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000764.htm    
                                Description: You know exercise is good for you. It can help you lose weight, relieve stress, and boost your mood. You also know it helps prevent heart disease and other health problems. But despite knowing these facts,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Learn to love exercise

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000764.htm

# Learn to love exercise

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You know exercise is good for you. It can help you lose weight, relieve
stress, and boost your mood. You also know it helps prevent heart disease and
other health problems. But despite knowing these facts, you may still struggle
to get regular exercise.

Improve your perception of exercise. DO NOT see it as just something you
_should_ do, but as something you _want_ to do. Tailor your exercise routine,
so it becomes something you actually look forward to doing.

## Do Activities You Enjoy

With so many options for exercise, there is no need to suffer through a
workout you do not like.

    *  **Be true to yourself.** Look for activities that suit your personality. If you are a social butterfly, try group activities, such as dance classes, a cycling club, or a walking group. Many groups welcome new members at all levels. If competition is what drives you, take up softball or join a rowing club. If you prefer solo exercise, consider jogging or swimming.
    *  **Try something new.** There is a whole world of exercise possibilities out there, from salsa classes, to kayaking, to rock climbing. You never know what activities you might enjoy until you try them. So see what is available in your area and go for it. Whether it is horseback riding, belly dancing, or water polo, find an activity or sport that interests you and sign-up. If you find it hard to go alone, bring a friend or family member.
    *  **Channel your inner child.** Think about activities you enjoyed as a child and try them again. Was it roller skating, dance, maybe basketball? You may be surprised at how much you still enjoy your childhood pastimes. Many communities have adult leagues and classes you can join.
    *  **Choose your sweet spot.** Do you love being outdoors? Choose activities that get you outside, such as walking, hiking, or gardening. If you prefer to exercise indoors, think about swimming, active video games, or yoga.
    *  **Mix it up.** Even the most fun activity can get boring if you do it day after day. Find a few things you like and mix it up. For example, you might play golf on a Saturdays, take tango classes on Mondays, and swim laps on Wednesdays.
    *  **Add a soundtrack.** Listening to music helps the time pass and keeps your pace up. Or, you might try listening to audio books while you walk or ride a stationary bike. Just be sure the volume is low enough for you to hear what is going on around you. 

## Stay Motivated

Getting started with a routine is just the first step. You will also need help
staying motivated so that you keep up your new habits.

    *  **Remind yourself how much you like exercising.** Most people feel really good after exercising. But for some reason, it's hard to remember that feeling before your next workout. As a reminder, make a few notes about how good you feel after a workout. Or, take a photo of yourself after a workout and stick it on the fridge for inspiration.
    *  **Share your progress online.** Social media offers a number of ways to share your progress and get positive feedback from friends. Look for websites where you can track your daily walk or run. If you like to write, start a blog about your adventures.
    *  **Sign up for a charity event.** Charity events offer you the chance to walk, ski, run, or bike for a good cause. Not only are these events fun, but training for them can help keep your motivation up. Many charities help participants by arranging training runs or bikes. You'll get fit while meeting new friends. Or, boost your motivation by signing up for the event with family, friends, or coworkers.
    *  **Reward yourself.** Treat yourself for hitting your goals. Think about rewards that support your efforts, such as new walking shoes, a heart rate monitor, or a GPS watch you can use to track your workouts. Small rewards work as well, such as tickets to a concert or movie. 

## Alternative Names

Prevention - learn to love exercise; Wellness - learn to love exercise

## References

Buchner DM. Physical activity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Physical activity basics.
www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/basics. Updated June 4, 2015. Accessed May 15,
2018.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al; American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on
lifestyle management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

