Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001941.htm    
                                Description: Physical activity -- which includes an active lifestyle and routine exercise -- plus eating well, is the best way to stay healthy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Physical activity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001941.htm

# Physical activity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Physical activity -- which includes an active lifestyle and routine exercise
-- plus eating well, is the best way to stay healthy.

## Information

An effective exercise program needs to be fun and keep you motivated. It helps
to have a goal.

Your goal might be to:

    * Manage a health condition
    * Reduce stress
    * Improve your stamina
    * Buy clothes in a smaller size 

Your exercise program can also be a good way for you to socialize. Taking
exercise classes or exercising with a friend are both good ways to be social.

You may have a hard time starting an exercise routine, but once you do start,
you may begin to notice other benefits, such as:

    * Better control of your weight and appetite
    * Improved fitness, making it easier to do everyday activities
    * Improved sleep
    * More confidence in yourself
    * Lower risk for heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure 

**GETTING STARTED**

You do not need to join a gym to exercise. If you have not exercised or been
active in a long time, start slowly to prevent injuries. Taking a brisk
10-minute walk twice a week is a good start.

Try joining a dance, yoga, or karate class if it appeals to you. You could
also join a baseball or bowling team, or even a mall-walking group. The social
aspects of these groups can be rewarding and motivating.

The most important thing is to do exercises that you can maintain and enjoy.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Talk with your health care provider before starting an
exercise program if:

    * You have diabetes, heart disease, lung disease, or another long-term illness
    * You are obese
    * You have not been very active lately
    * You get chest pains or shortness of breath when you are activeÂ   

**BUILD PHYSICAL ACTIVITY INTO YOUR REGULAR ROUTINE** Â

Simple lifestyle changes can make a big difference over time.

    * At work, try taking the stairs instead of the elevator, walking down the hall to talk with a co-worker instead of sending an email, or adding a 10- to 20-minute walk during lunch.
    * When you are running errands, try parking at the far end of the parking lot or down the street. Even better, walk to the store or other nearby places.
    * At home, do chores such as vacuuming, washing the car, gardening, raking leaves, or shoveling snow.
    * If you ride the bus or other public transportation, get off 1 stop before your usual stop and walk the rest of the way. 

**REDUCE YOUR SCREEN TIME**

Sedentary behaviors are things you do while you are sitting still. Decreasing
your sedentary behaviors can help you lose weight. For most people, the best
way to decrease sedentary behaviors is to reduce the time they spend watching
TV and using a computer and other electronic devices. All of these activities
are called "screen time."

Some ways to decrease screen time are:

    * Choose 1 or 2 TV programs to watch, and turn off the TV when they are over.
    * Do not keep the TV on all the time for background noise -- you might end up sitting down and watching it. Turn on the radio instead. You can be up doing things around the house and still listen to the radio.
    * Do not eat while you watch TV.
    * Take the batteries out of your TV remote control and get up to change the channel.
    * Before you turn on the TV, take your dog or a neighbor's dog for a walk. If you are going to miss your favorite show, record it.
    * Find activities to replace TV watching. Read a book, play a board game with family or friends, or take an evening cooking class.
    * Work out on an exercise or yoga ball while you watch TV. You will burn calories. Or, set up a stationary bike or treadmill in front of your TV and use it while you watch. 

If you like playing video games, try games that require you to move your whole
body, not just your thumbs.

![Exercise - a powerful
tool](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19480.jpg)

 **HOW MUCH EXERCISE DO YOU NEED?**

The _Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans_ recommends that adults get a
total of 150 to 300 minutes per week of moderate-intensity activity, or 75 to
150 minutes per week of vigorous activity. You could also meet this
recommendation with an equivalent amount of combined moderate and intense
activity. Muscle strengthening, also called strength training, resistance
training, or endurance exercise, should also be done 2 or more days a week.

As you become more fit, you can challenge yourself by increasing the intensity
of your exercise by going from light to moderate activity. You can also
increase the amount of time you exercise.

## Alternative Names

Fitness recommendations; Exercise - physical activity

## Images

    * ![Exercise can lower blood pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19233t.jpg)Exercise can lower blood pressure
    * ![Aerobic exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19383t.jpg)Aerobic exercise
    * ![Benefit of regular exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19388t.jpg)Benefit of regular exercise
    * ![Flexibility exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19391t.jpg)Flexibility exercise
    * ![Isometric exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19392t.jpg)Isometric exercise
    * ![Exercise and age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19478t.jpg)Exercise and age
    * ![Exercise with friends](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19479t.jpg)Exercise with friends
    * ![Exercise - a powerful tool](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19480t.jpg)Exercise - a powerful tool
    * ![Physical activity - preventive medicine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9777t.jpg)Physical activity - preventive medicine
    * ![Exercise and heart rate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18138t.jpg)Exercise and heart rate

## References

Buchner DM, Kraus WE. Physical activity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 13.

Piercy KL, Troiano RP, Ballard RM, et al. The Physical activity guidelines for
Americans. _JAMA_. 2018;320(19):2020-2028. PMID: 30418471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30418471.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exercise and Physical
Fitness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ExerciseandPhysicalFitness_thumb.jpg)Exercise
and Physical Fitness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

