Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000809.htm    
                                Description: Do you think you can dance? If you are not sure, why not give it a try? Dancing is an exciting and social way to work out your body. From ballroom to salsa, dancing works your heart and helps build strong    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dance your way to fitness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000809.htm

# Dance your way to fitness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Do you think you can dance? If you are not sure, why not give it a try?
Dancing is an exciting and social way to work out your body. From ballroom to
salsa, dancing works your heart and helps build strong bones and muscles.
Because dancing is so much fun, you may forget you are exercising.

## Health Benefits of Dance

Dancing combines the benefits of aerobic plus weight-bearing exercise. When
you dance, you get many physical and mental health benefits, including:

    * Better heart health
    * Stronger muscles
    * Better balance and coordination
    * Stronger bones
    * Lower risk of dementia
    * Improved memory
    * Reduced stress
    * More energy
    * Improved mood

## Types of Dance

There are dance styles to fit almost anyone and any mood. The kind you choose
may depend on what is available in your area and your own taste in dance or
music. If you have danced before, you can pick up where you left off. Or you
may decide to choose something new.

Here are some types of dance you may want to try:

    * Salsa
    * Flamenco
    * Ballroom
    * Tap
    * Swing
    * Square dancing
    * Contra dancing
    * Belly dancing
    * Line dancing
    * Tango
    * Jazz dancing
    * Ballet
    * Modern dance
    * Hip-hop
    * Folk
    * Clogging 

## Other Ways to Dance

If traditional dance does not appeal to you, there are other ways to get
moving to rhythm and music. Many health clubs and fitness centers offer dance
workout classes, such as Zumba. These classes mix moves from many styles of
dance into a fun, vigorous program for people of all ability and fitness
levels.

Dance video games and DVDs are also a way to get dancing in the privacy of
your own home. You can buy them or borrow them from your local library. Or,
just turn up the music at home and dance in your living room.

## How Dancing Compares to Other Exercise

The workout you get from dance depends on the type of dancing you do and for
how long you do it. For example, ballroom dancing will give you a moderate
workout. This is about the same level of exercise you would get from walking
briskly or doing water aerobics. Most types of ballroom dancing burn about 260
calories in an hour.

More intense types of dance, such as salsa or aerobic dancing, will give you a
more vigorous workout that is similar to jogging or swimming laps. You can
burn up to 500 calories an hour with these types of dance.

## How to get Started

Look for classes at dance schools, health clubs, or community centers. DO NOT
worry if you do not have a partner. Many classes will find you a partner if
you do not have one. Some types of dancing, such as tap and line dancing, do
not require a partner.

If you are new to dance or you have been inactive, start with a beginner
class. A beginner class will be easier to follow and will reduce your risk for
injury. As you build your skill and fitness, you can try more advanced
classes. You may even want to add new types of dance.

Not sure what type of dance to choose? Ask if you can watch a few classes
first. Once you start a class, be patient. It can take some time to learn how
to move your body and feet together with the music.

## Alternative Names

Exercise - dance; Wellness - dance

## References

American Council on Exercise website. What are the benefits of dance inspired
workouts? www.acefitness.org/acefit/healthy-living-article/60/99/what-are-the-
benefits-of-dance-inspired. Updated November 11, 2009. Accessed August 8,
2018.

American Council on Exercise website. Zumba fitness: sure it's fun, but is it
effective? www.acefitness.org/certifiednewsarticle/2813/zumba-fitness-sure-it-
s-fun-but-is-it-effective. Accessed August 8, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Measuring physical
activity intensity.
www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/everyone/measuring/index.html. Updated June 4,
2015. Accessed August 8, 2018.

Heyn PC, Hirsch MA, York MK, Backus D. Physical activity recommendations for
the aging brain: a clinician-patient guide. _Arch Phys Med Rehabil_.
2016;97(6):1045-1047. PMID: 27233994 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27233994.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

