Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000947.htm    
                                Description: A family health history is a record of a family    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Creating a family health history

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000947.htm

# Creating a family health history

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A family health history is a record of a family's health information. It
includes your health information and that of your grandparents, aunts and
uncles, parents, and siblings.

Many health problems tend to run in families. Creating a family history can
help you and your family be aware of possible health risks so you can take
steps to reduce them.

## What Is a Family History?

Many factors affect your health. These include your:

    * Genes
    * Diet and exercise habits
    * Environment 

Family members tend to share certain behaviors, genetic traits, and habits.
Creating a family history can help you identify the specific risks that
influence your health and your family's health.

For example, having a family member with a condition such as diabetes may
increase your risk of getting it. The risk is higher when:

    * More than one person in the family has the condition
    * A family member developed the condition 10 to 20 years earlier than most other people with the condition 

Serious diseases such as heart diseases, diabetes, cancer, and stroke are more
likely to run in families. You can share this information with your health
care provider who can suggest ways to reduce your risk.

## What Should Be Included in Your Family Health History?

For a complete family medical history, you will need health information about
your:

    * Parents
    * Grandparents
    * Aunts and Uncles
    * Cousins
    * Sisters and brothers 

You can ask for this information at family gatherings or reunions. You may
need to explain:

    * Why you are gathering this information
    * How it will help you and others in your family 

You can even offer to share what you find with other family members.

For a complete picture of each relative, find out:

    * Date of birth or approximate age
    * Where the person grew up and lived
    * Any health habits they are willing to share, such as smoking or drinking alcohol
    * Medical conditions, long-term (chronic) conditions such as asthma, and serious conditions such as cancer
    * Any history of mental illness
    * Age at which they developed the medical condition
    * Any learning problems or developmental disabilities
    * Birth defects
    * Problems with pregnancies or childbirth
    * The age and cause of death for relatives who are deceased
    * Which country/region your family originally came from (Ireland, Germany, Eastern Europe, Africa, and so on) 

Ask these same questions about any relatives who have died.

## How Will a Family History Help You and Your Family?

Share your family history with your provider and your child's provider. Your
provider can use this information to help lower your risk for certain
conditions or diseases. For example, your provider may recommend certain
tests, such as:

    * Early screening tests if you are at a higher risk than the average person
    * Genetic tests before you get pregnant to see if you carry the gene for certain rare diseases 

Your provider also may suggest lifestyle changes to help reduce your risk.
These may include:

    * Eating a healthy diet and getting regular exercise
    * Losing extra weight
    * Quitting smoking
    * Reducing how much alcohol you drink 

Having a family health history can also help protect your child's health:

    * You can help your child learn healthy diet and exercise habits. This can reduce the risk of diseases such as diabetes.
    * You and your child's provider can be alert to early signs of possible health problems that run in the family. This can help you and your provider take preventive action. 

## When to Create Your Family History

Everyone can benefit from a family history. Create your family history as soon
as you can. It is especially useful when:

    * You are planning to have a baby
    * You already know that a certain condition runs in the family 
    * You or your child develops signs of a disorder 

## Alternative Names

Family health history; Create a family health history; Family medical history

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Family health history: the
basics. www.cdc.gov/genomics/famhistory/famhist_basics.htm. Updated July 18,
2017. Accessed January 17, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Family health history for
adults. www.cdc.gov/genomics/famhistory/famhist_adults.htm. Updated July 18,
2018. Accessed January 17, 2019.

Scott DA, Lee B. Patterns of genetic transmission. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Family History

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

