Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000110.htm    
                                Description: The Mediterranean-style diet has fewer meats and carbohydrates than a typical American diet. It also has more plant-based foods and monounsaturated (good) fat. People who live in Italy, Spain, and other    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mediterranean diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000110.htm

# Mediterranean diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Mediterranean-style diet has fewer meats and carbohydrates than a typical
American diet. It also has more plant-based foods and monounsaturated (good)
fat. People who live in Italy, Spain, and other countries in the Mediterranean
region have eaten this way for centuries.

Following the Mediterranean diet may lead to more stable blood sugar, lower
cholesterol and triglycerides, and a lower risk for heart disease and other
health problems.

## How to Follow the Diet

The Mediterranean diet is based on:

    * Plant-based meals, with just small amounts of lean meat and chicken
    * More servings of whole grains, fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts, and legumes
    * Foods that naturally contain high amounts of fiber
    * Plenty of fish and other seafood
    * Olive oil as the main source of fat for preparing food. Olive oil is a healthy, monounsaturated fat
    * Food that is prepared and seasoned simply, without sauces and gravies

## Foods Not in the Diet

Foods that are eaten in small amounts or NOT at all in the Mediterranean diet
include:

    * Red meats
    * Sweets and other desserts
    * Eggs
    * Butter

## Possible Health Concerns

There may be health concerns with this eating style for some people,
including:

    * You may gain weight from eating fats in olive oil and nuts.
    * You may have lower levels of iron. If you choose to follow the Mediterranean diet, be sure to eat some foods rich in iron or in vitamin C, which helps your body absorb iron.
    * You may have calcium loss from eating fewer dairy products. Ask your health care provider if you should take a calcium supplement.
    * Wine is a common part of a Mediterranean eating style but some people should not drink alcohol. Avoid wine if you are prone to alcohol abuse, pregnant, at risk for breast cancer, or have other conditions that alcohol could make worse.

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Prescott E. Lifestyle interventions. In: de Lemos JA, Omland T, eds. _Chronic
Coronary Artery Disease: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Thompson M, Noel MB. Nutrition and family medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * How to read food labels
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diets
    * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

