Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000895.htm    
                                Description: A diet myth is advice that becomes popular without facts to back it up. When it comes to weight loss, many popular beliefs are myths and others are only partly true. Here are some facts to help you sort    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet myths and facts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000895.htm

# Diet myths and facts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A diet myth is advice that becomes popular without facts to back it up. When
it comes to weight loss, many popular beliefs are myths and others are only
partly true. Here are some facts to help you sort through what you hear.

 **MYTH? Cut back on carbs to lose weight.**

 **FACT:**Carbohydrates come in different forms: simple and complex. Simple
carbs found in foods like cookies and candy lack vitamins, minerals, and
fiber. Cutting back on these sweets, is a great way to eat healthier. Foods
with complex carbs like whole-wheat bread, beans, and fruit, have lots of
nutrients that are good for you.

    * Cut back on simple carbs but keep complex carbs on the menu. 

**MYTH? If the label says "no-fat" or "low-fat," you can eat all you want and
not gain weight.**

 **FACT:** Many low-fat or no-fat foods have added sugar, starch, or salt to
make up for the reduction in fat. These "wonder" foods often have just as many
calories, or more, than the regular version.

    * Check the nutrition label to see how many calories are in a serving. Be sure to check the serving size too. 

**MYTH? Skipping breakfast makes you gain weight.**

 **FACT:** Eating a healthy breakfast can help you manage your hunger later in
the day and help you to say, "No thanks," to unhealthy snacks. No scientific
studies have shown that skipping the morning meal leads directly to weight
gain.

    * If you are not hungry first thing, listen to your body. When you are ready to eat, help yourself to a healthy option like oatmeal with fresh berries.

 **MYTH? Eating at night will make you fat.**

 **FACT:** People who eat late at night do tend to put on extra weight. One
possible reason is that late-night eaters tend to choose high-calorie treats.
Some people who snack after dinner do not sleep well, which can lead to
unhealthy cravings the next day.

    * If you are hungry after dinner, limit yourself to healthy snacks such as low-fat yogurt or baby carrots.

 **MYTH? You cannot be overweight and healthy.**

 **FACT:** There are some people who are overweight with healthy blood
pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar levels. For most people, excess weight
increases the risk for heart disease and diabetes. The longer you are
overweight, the more your risk of developing disease increases.

    * While you can be overweight and healthy, carrying extra weight will increase your risk for health problems down the line, but healthy eating and regular activity are good for you no matter what you weigh.

 **MYTH? Fasting can help you lose weight quickly.**

 **FACT:** Fasting is not healthy if you go hungry all day and cap it off with
a huge meal that replaces all the calories you skipped earlier. Compared to
people who lose fat by eating fewer calories, people who fast lose more muscle
than fat.

    * Look at your daily diet for empty calories you can cut out, such as refined grains and sugary drinks. DO NOT cut out meals entirely, especially without a doctor's supervision.

 **MYTH? You have to set modest goals if you want to lose weight.**

 **FACT:** In theory, it makes sense that if you set ambitious goals and do
not reach them, you might give up. However, some people actually lose more
weight when they set goals that make them push themselves.

    * No two people are the same. What works for someone else may not work for you. Losing weight is a process. Be ready to modify your plan as you discover what works and does not work for you.

 **MYTH? Slow weight loss is the only way to lose weight and keep it off.**

 **FACT:** While it is true that many people who lose a lot of weight in a
short time gain it all back, this is not true for everyone. Some overweight
people are more successful when they lose weight quickly, for instance, going
from 300 to 250 pounds (135 to 112 kilograms) in less than a year.

    * Slow weight loss might not be the only option for you. Just be careful to avoid fad diets that promise unrealistic results, they may not be safe. If you are interested in a diet that encourages faster weight loss, be sure to work with your health care provider to make sure you are getting all the nutrients you need.

## Alternative Names

Obesity - diet myths and facts; Overweight - diet myths and fact; Weight-loss
diet myths and facts

## References

Brown AW, Brown MMB, Allison DB. Belief beyond the evidence: using the
proposed effect of breakfast on obesity to show 2 practices that distort
scientific evidence. _Am J Clin Nutr_. 2013;98(5):1298-1308. PMID: 24004890
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24004890.

Casazza K, Fontaine KR, Astrup A, et al. Myths, presumptions, and facts about
obesity. _New Engl J Med_. 2013;368(5):446-454. PMID: 23363498
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23363498.

Gallant A, Lundgren J, Drapeau V. Nutritional aspects of late eating and night
eating. _Curr Obes Rep_. 2014:3(1):101-107. PMID: 26626471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26626471.

Kramer CK, Zinman B, Retnakaran R. Are metabolically healthy overweight and
obesity benign conditions?: A systematic review and meta-analysis. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2013;159(11):758-769. PMID: 24297192
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24297192.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Some myths
about nutrition & physical activity. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-
information/weight-management/myths-nutrition-physical-activity. Updated April
2017. Accessed July 14, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diets

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

