Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000812.htm    
                                Description: Diet-busting foods work against you if you are watching your weight. These food may taste good, but are low in nutrition and high in calories. Many of these foods leave you feeling hungry because they    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet-busting foods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000812.htm

# Diet-busting foods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diet-busting foods work against you if you are watching your weight. These
food may taste good, but are low in nutrition and high in calories. Many of
these foods leave you feeling hungry because they are low in fiber or protein.
In general, diet-busting foods should make up a very small portion of your
overall diet.

## Worst Offenders

**High-fat foods.** Most high-fat foods have a lot of calories but little
nutrition. Many of these diet-busting foods are made with unhealthy saturated
or trans fats. These types of fats are solid at room temperature. For
instance, the fat in cheese and butter is solid. By contrast, heart-healthy
olive oil is a liquid fat. Still, you should always control your portions,
because too much of any fat can lead to weight gain.

High-fat foods include:

    * Fatty meats, such as sausage, bacon, and ribs
    * Dishes made with full-fat cheese, such as pizza, burritos, and mac and cheese
    * Fried foods
    * Whole-fat dairy foods, such as ice cream or pudding
    * Foods prepared in cream, such as creamy sauces and soups 

**Refined grains.** Unlike diet-boosting whole grains, most of the nutrients
and fiber have been stripped away from these grains in the refining process.
As a result, they leave you hungry.

Refined grains include:

    * White bread
    * Pasta made with white flour
    * White rice 

**High-calorie drinks.** Sweetened beverages are generally very high in
calories.

    *  **Soda.** A 16-ounce (480 mL) can of sugary soda has almost as many calories as a cookie.
    *  **Fruit juice.** Most fruit juice is high in sugar and low in fruit. Look for 100% fruit juice with no added corn syrup, dextrose, sucrose, or syrup. Watch your serving size, because 100% juices are still high in calories. They often do not have as many nutrients as the whole fruit they are squeezed from. A better option is to eat a piece of fruit. The added fiber and bulk will help you feel fuller.
    *  **Sports and energy drinks.** Many of these drinks are high in sugar and calories. Energy drinks also have a lot of caffeine. Unless you exercise hard enough to sweat for an hour or more, you are better off drinking water. You can also choose low-calorie versions of these drinks.
    *  **Coffee drinks.** Coffee is low in calories on its own. But once you add high-fat milk, sugary flavorings, and whipped cream, the calorie count soars. 

**Baked goods.** High in fat, sugar, and refined grains, pastries and baked
desserts are diet-busters on every level. Limit these foods to the occasional
treat and make sure you watch your portion sizes. These include:

    * Donuts
    * Muffins
    * Scones
    * Cake
    * Cookies
    * Brownies 

## They Seem Healthy, But They are not

**Exercise bars.** These bars may have earned their healthy reputation because
they are sold to give you energy for exercise. But most of them are more like
candy bars: low in fiber, and high in sugar, fat, and calories. Unless you
need some quick energy in the middle of a race or training session, look for a
healthier way to refuel.

 **Cream-based soups.** The advice to make a meal of soup and salad can
backfire if your cup of soup has the calorie and fat profile of a hamburger.
Creamy soups like mushroom bisque and many chowders have around 400 calories
in 1 cup (250 mL). Broth-based soups like minestrone have around 100 calories.

 **Creamy salad dressing.** Ranch, peppercorn, and blue cheese dressings can
turn a healthy salad into a high-fat meal. But you do not need to go totally
nonfat. Instead, use a spoonful of dressing made with healthy fats such as
avocados, olive oil, or yogurt. If you do choose to indulge in a creamy
dressing, measure it out carefully and limit your portions to no more than 1
to 2 tbsp (15 to 30 mL).

 **Sugar-free foods.** If a food that is usually made with sugar is labeled
sugar free, check the calories on the nutrition label. Often, extra fat and
salt are added to make up for the lack of sugar.

 **Potatoes.** Whether a potato is diet-busting or diet-boosting depends on
how you cook it. A baked potato has about 120 calories. You can top it with
broccoli and drizzle it with olive oil. But once you fry a potato or turn it
into hash browns, the calories more than double and unhealthy fats increase
dramatically.

## Healthy in Small Amounts

**Nuts.** High in fiber, nuts are a tasty way to eat heart-healthy fat. But
nuts are also high in calories. One cup of chopped nuts can contain more than
700 calories. To get a dose of protein and heart-healthy fat, limit yourself
to 1 to 2 tbsp (15 to 30 mL) of peanut butter or a small handful of unsalted
nuts like almonds or walnuts.

 **Dried fruit.** The drying process takes away the water and a lot of the
volume, making dried fruit higher in calories and sugar than a similar portion
size of fresh fruit. A cup (150 grams) of dried figs has 371 calories and 71
grams of sugar. Compare that to 2 large fresh figs, which have a total of 94
calories and 20 grams of sugar. Portion control is the key to eating dried
fruit without busting your diet.

 **Granola.** This is another food best eaten in small portions. A cup (120
grams) of granola can range from 343 calories in a low-fat version you buy in
the store, to 597 calories in a cup of homemade granola. Many commercial
versions have added sugar and fat. Like dried fruit and nuts, granola is
packed with fiber and nutrients. Read labels, pay attention to serving sizes,
watch the calorie count, and eat granola in small amounts. A half cup (60
grams) or less can dress up a bowl of nonfat yogurt or make a delicious
topping for fresh fruit.

## Alternative Names

Obesity - diet-busting foods; Overweight - diet-busting foods; Weight loss -
diet busting foods

## References

Despres J-P, Larose E, Poirier P. Obesity and cardiometabolic disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 50.

Klein S, Romijin JA. Obesity. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg
HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

USDA Nutrient Data Laboratory website. Food composition database.
ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb. Accessed August 10, 2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diets

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

