Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000810.htm    
                                Description: Diet-boosting foods nourish you without adding a lot of extra calories from sugar and saturated fat. Compared to diet-busting foods, these healthy options are high in nutrients and take longer to digest,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet-boosting foods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000810.htm

# Diet-boosting foods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diet-boosting foods nourish you without adding a lot of extra calories from
sugar and saturated fat. Compared to diet-busting foods, these healthy options
are high in nutrients and take longer to digest, so you stay full longer.

## Fruit and Vegetables

Any healthy diet includes fruit and vegetables every day. Foods that grow on
farms, in gardens, or on trees are loaded with nutrients and fiber. They fill
you up and give you a steady flow of energy.

 **Ways to eat fruit.** Keep a fruit bowl stocked in your kitchen for a quick,
healthy snack. If you are short on time, use frozen fruit that comes pre-
sliced. Check to make sure there is no added sugar. The ingredient list should
only include fruit. Other serving suggestions include:

    * Berries over nonfat yogurt
    * Fruit smoothie with nonfat yogurt
    * Citrus salad with walnuts
    * Watermelon salad with balsamic vinegar
    * Grilled pineapple, peaches, or nectarines
    * Poached pears
    * Spinach and pear salad

 **Ways to eat vegetables.** Cut raw veggies like carrots or bell peppers into
sticks so you can snack on them throughout the day. You can also eat them in a
salad. Like fruit, many vegetables come pre-cut and frozen. Again, check the
label to make sure the ingredient list only includes vegetables. Try these
vegetable recipe ideas:

    * Stir-fried broccoli over brown rice
    * Collard greens with a fried egg
    * Roasted beets with fennel and orange slices
    * Corn and tomato salad
    * Grilled veggie kabobs or roasted vegetables
    * Store-bought low-sodium soups with added frozen veggies
    * Frozen vegetables stirred into boiling pasta during the last 5 minutes of cooking

## Beans

Beans are a great source of protein and fiber. You can use beans to reduce or
even replace meat in many dishes.

 **Ways to eat beans.** If you do not have time to pre-soak and cook dry
beans, canned beans will save you time. Just be sure you buy beans that are
low in salt (sodium). You can also reduce the sodium content by rinsing and
draining canned beans. Here are some tasty ways to eat more beans:

    * Vegetarian chili with kidney beans
    * Black-eyed pea salsa
    * Hummus made with garbanzo beans
    * Lentil soup with carrots and spinach
    * Split pea soup
    * Brown rice and pinto beans
    * White bean salad with lemon and avocado
    * Veggie burgers 

## Whole Grains

At least one half of the grains you eat should be whole grains. Whole grains
still have most of the nutrients and fiber they started with as plants,
because whole grains contain the entire grain kernel. That is why whole-grain
bread has texture and white bread is smooth.

 **Ways to eat whole grains.** When choosing foods made with whole grains,
check the ingredients list, whole grains should be listed first. Great ways to
get more whole grains include:

    * Whole-wheat or multigrain toast with avocado
    * Oatmeal with berries
    * Wild rice and mushroom salad
    * Brown rice with stir-fried vegetables
    * Whole-grain barley and vegetable soup
    * Whole-wheat pizza with grilled vegetables and marinara sauce
    * Popcorn with little or no added salt and butter

## Low-Fat and Nonfat Dairy Foods

Low-fat and nonfat milk, yogurt, and cottage cheese are healthy sources of
calcium, vitamin D, and potassium. Unlike sweetened drinks with extra
calories, milk fills you up with nutrients.

**Ways to get more dairy.** Get creative when adding dairy to your diet:

    * Add milk to high-fiber cereal
    * Cook your oatmeal with skim milk instead of water
    * Eat yogurt alone, with fruit, or drizzled with honey
    * Use yogurt-based salad dressing
    * Substitute Greek yogurt for sour cream
    * Snack on low-fat or nonfat cheese sticks
    * Spread low-fat cottage cheese on wheat crackers and top with tomatoes
    * Add a spoonful of nonfat cottage cheese to scrambled eggs 

## Foods to Eat in Moderation

Add limited amounts of these foods to your diet.

 **Nuts.** In small amounts, nuts are a great source of fiber, protein, and
healthy fat. But nuts are also high in calories, and they are easy to overeat.
Eat them sparingly. Portion nuts out ahead of time, rather than eating them
straight from the container. Add nuts to salads and main dishes as a source of
protein.

 **Healthy oils.** Oils such as olive oil, canola oil, sunflower oil,
safflower oil, and soft margarine are great replacements for oils that are
high in solid fat, like butter and shortening. Many oils that are high in
solid fat are bad for your waist and heart.

Use healthy oils instead of butter for cooking and in salad dressings to add
richness to your meals. Like nuts, oils are high in calories, so they are
healthiest in smaller amounts.

 **Seafood.** Seafood is high in nutrients and heart-healthy fat. The United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) recommends eating at least one 8-ounce
(226 grams) serving of seafood every week. Healthy choices include sardines,
herring, tilapia, and trout.

 **Chicken.** Chicken is healthiest when you roast, broil, or grill it.
Chicken breasts are lower in fat and calories than chicken thighs. It is fine
to cook chicken with the skin on, which helps keep it moist. Remove the skin
before eating to save about 50 calories and almost 5 grams of fat.

Fried chicken, chicken wings, or chicken served in cream sauce are a few of
the many ways to make chicken unhealthy. You are best off avoiding these
chicken options.

 **Lean cuts of meat.** Whether meat is lean or high in fat depends on the
part of the animal it came from.

    * A serving of pork loin has 3 grams of fat. Spare ribs have 26 grams of fat.
    * A top sirloin steak has 7 grams of fat. Prime rib has almost 23 grams of fat.
    * Look for ground meat labeled "97% to 99% lean."

It is even healthier to use lean meat as a garnish instead of as a main
course. For example, cook some lean ground beef, drain any oil, and add it,
along with chopped carrots and zucchini, to a pot of tomato sauce.

## Alternative Names

Obesity - diet-boosting foods; Overweight - diet-boosting foods

## References

Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website. Food. www.eatright.org/food.
Accessed August 8, 2018.

USDA Nutrient Data Laboratory website. Food composition databases.
ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb. Accessed August 8, 2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed August 8, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diets

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

