Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lymphoma.html    
                                Description: Lymphoma is a cancer affecting the immune system. Hodgkins Lymphoma and Non Hodgkins Lymphoma are types of lymphoma. Learn about symptoms and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Lymphoma

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lymphoma.html

#  Lymphoma

Also called: Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Lymphoma is a cancer of a part of the immune system called the lymph system.
There are many types of lymphoma. One type is Hodgkin disease. The rest are
called non-Hodgkin lymphomas.

Non-Hodgkin lymphomas begin when a type of white blood cell, called a T cell
or B cell, becomes abnormal. The cell divides again and again, making more and
more abnormal cells. These abnormal cells can spread to almost any other part
of the body. Most of the time, doctors don't know why a person gets non-
Hodgkin lymphoma. You are at increased risk if you have a weakened immune
system or have certain types of infections.

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma can cause many symptoms, such as

    * Swollen, painless lymph nodes in the neck, armpits or groin
    * Unexplained weight loss 
    * Fever 
    * Soaking night sweats 
    * Coughing, trouble breathing or chest pain 
    * Weakness and tiredness that don't go away 
    * Pain, swelling or a feeling of fullness in the abdomen 

Your doctor will diagnose lymphoma with a physical exam, blood tests, a chest
x-ray, and a biopsy. Treatments include chemotherapy, radiation therapy,
targeted therapy, biological therapy, or therapy to remove proteins from the
blood. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific
cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Biologic therapy boosts your
body's own ability to fight cancer. If you don't have symptoms, you may not
need treatment right away. This is called watchful waiting.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * General Information about Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * What Is Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Beta 2 Microglobulin (B2M) Tumor Marker Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Blood Count Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Bone Marrow Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society)
    * Lab and Imaging Tests (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Needle Biopsy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Stages of AIDS-Related Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Stages of Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Stages of Mycosis Fungoides and the Sezary Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Staging Primary CNS Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Tumor Marker Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Can Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Be Prevented? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Risk Factors for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Risk Factors for Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia? (American Cancer Society)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood-Forming Stem Cell Transplants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Drugs Approved for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Immunotherapy (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Integrative Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Therapies (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Radioimmunotherapy (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (AIDS Related-Lymphoma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Option Overview (Mycosis Fungoides and the Sezary Syndrome) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Option Overview (Primary CNS Lymphoma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options by Stage (Mycosis Fungoides and the Sezary Syndrome) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Options for AIDS-Related Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Options for Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Options for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Options for Primary CNS Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment Options for Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides and the Sezary Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * When to Treat People with Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia (American Cancer Society)

## Living With

    * Getting the Facts: Cancer-Related Fatigue (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * What Happens After Treatment for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Happens After Treatment of Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia? (American Cancer Society)

## Related Issues

    * What's the Difference between Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma (CLL/SLL) (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * General Information about AIDS-Related Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Mycosis Fungoides and the Sezary Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Primary CNS Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Mantle Cell Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * Marginal Zone Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * T-Cell Lymphoma (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * What Is Waldenstrom Macroglobulinema? (American Cancer Society)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: mycosis fungoides ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: SÃ©zary syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Types of Treatment: Clinical Trials (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Serum proteome profiles to differentiate Crohn disease from intestinal tuberculosis and...
    * Article: Radiological analysis of breast lymphoma: Experiences from cases series studies.
    * Article: CE: Hematologic Childhood Cancers: An Evidence-Based Review.
    * Lymphoma -- see more articles
    * Non-hodgkin lymphoma -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
    * Lymphoma Research Foundation
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Do We Know What Causes Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Children? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Diagnosed in Children? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * What Are the Risk Factors for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Children? (American Cancer Society)

## Patient Handouts

    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * B-cell leukemia/lymphoma panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Burkitt lymphoma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lymph node biopsy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * 24-hour urine protein
    * ACE blood test
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * B and T cell screen
    * B-cell leukemia/lymphoma panel
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Burkitt lymphoma
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Cytology exam of pleural fluid
    * Immunofixation - blood
    * Immunofixation - urine
    * Lymph node biopsy
    * Lymphangiogram
    * Macroglobulinemia of Waldenstrom
    * Mediastinal tumor
    * Mediastinoscopy with biopsy
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma - children
    * Quantitative nephelometry
    * Serum globulin electrophoresis
    * T-cell count

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Hodgkin Disease

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Lymphoma is the National Cancer
Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

