Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000869.htm    
                                Description: When you have a question about your or your family    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Online health information - what can you trust?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000869.htm

# Online health information - what can you trust?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have a question about your or your family's health, you may look it
up on the Internet. You can find accurate health information on many sites.
But, you are also likely to run across a lot of questionable, even false
content. How can you tell the difference?

To find health information you can trust, you have to know where and how to
look. These tips can help.

## What to Look for

With a bit of detective work, you can find information you can trust.

    * Search for websites of well-known health institutions. Medical schools, professional health organizations, and hospitals often provide online health content.
    * Look for ".gov," ".edu," or ".org" in the web address. A ".gov" address means the site is run by a government agency. A ".edu" address indicates an educational institution. And a ".org" address often means a professional organization runs the site. A ".com" address means a for-profit company runs the site. It may still have some good information, but the content may be biased.
    * Find out who wrote or reviewed the content. Look for health care providers such as doctors (MDs), nurses (RNs), or other licensed health professionals. Also look for an editorial policy. This policy can tell you where the site gets its content or how it is created.
    * Look for scientific references. Content is more reliable if it is based on scientific studies. Professional journals are good references. These include the _Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA)_ and the _New England Journal of Medicine_. Recent editions of medical textbooks are also good references.
    * Look for the contact information on the site. You should be able to reach the site sponsor by telephone, email, or a mailing address.
    * No matter where you find the information, check how old the content is. Even trusted sites may have out-of-date information archived. Look for content that is no more than 2 to 3 years old. Individual pages may have a date at the bottom that says when it was last updated. Or the home page may have such a date.
    * Beware of chat rooms and discussion groups. The content in these forums is typically not reviewed or regulated. Plus it may come from people who are not experts, or who are trying to sell something.
    * DO NOT rely on just one website. Compare the information you find on a site with content from other sites. Make sure other sites can back up the information you have found. 

## Things to Keep in Mind

While searching for health information online, use common sense and be wary.

    * If it seems too good to be true, it probably is. Beware of quick-fix cures. And remember that a money-back guarantee does not mean that something works.
    * As with any kind of website, it is important to be careful with your personal information. DO NOT give out your Social Security number. Before you buy anything, be sure that the site has a secure server. This will help protect your credit card information. You can tell by looking in the box near the top of the screen that cites the web address. At the start of the web address, look for "https".
    * Personal stories are not scientific fact. Just because someone claims that their personal health story is true, it does not mean that it is. But even if it is true, the same treatment may not apply to your case. Only your provider can help you find the care that is best for you.

## Where to Start

Here are a few high-quality resources to get you started.

    * Heart.org -- www.heart.org/en. Information on heart disease and ways to prevent disease. From the American Heart Association.
    * Diabetes.org -- www.diabetes.org. Information on diabetes and ways to prevent, manage, and treat the disease. From the American Diabetes Association.
    * Familydoctor.org -- familydoctor.org. General health information for families. Produced by the American Academy of Family Physicians.
    * Healthfinder.gov -- healthfinder.gov. General health information. Produced by the US Department of Health and Human Services.
    * HealthyChildren.org -- www.healthychildren.org/English/Pages/default.aspx. From the American Academy of Pediatrics.
    * CDC -- www.cdc.gov. Health information for all ages. From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
    * NIHSeniorHealth.gov -- www.nia.nih.gov/health. Health information for older adults. From the National Institutes of Health.

## When to Call the Doctor

It is great that you are seeking information to help you manage your health.
But keep in mind that online health information can never replace a talk with
your provider. Talk to your provider if you have questions about your health,
your treatment, or anything you read online. It can be helpful to print out
the articles you have read and bring them with you to your appointment.

## References

American Academy of Family Physicians website. Health information on the web:
finding reliable information. familydoctor.org/health-information-on-the-web-
finding-reliable-information. Updated January 4, 2018. Accessed August 13,
2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Using trusted resources.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/managing-care/using-trusted-resources. Updated
June 15, 2018. Accessed August 2, 2018.

National Institutes of Health website. How to evaluate health information on
the Internet: questions and answers.
ods.od.nih.gov/Health_Information/How_To_Evaluate_Health_Information_on_the_Internet_Questions_and_Answers.aspx.
Updated June 24, 2011. Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Evaluating Health Information

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

