Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003967.htm    
                                Description: Some people with weakened immune systems may be advised to give up their pets to avoid getting diseases from the animals. People in this category include those who take high doses of steroids and others    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pets and the immunocompromised person

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003967.htm

# Pets and the immunocompromised person

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some people with weakened immune systems may be advised to give up their pets
to avoid getting diseases from the animals. People in this category include
those who take high doses of steroids and others who have:

    * Alcohol use disorder
    * Cancer, including lymphoma and leukemia (mostly during treatment)
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Had an organ transplant
    * Had their spleen removed
    * HIV/AIDS

If you decide to keep your pet, you and your family must be aware of the riskÂ
of diseases that can be passed from animals to humans. Here are some tips:

    * Ask your veterinarian for information on infections that you might get from your pets.
    * Have your veterinarian check all of your pets for infectious diseases.
    * Wash your hands thoroughly after handling or touching your pet, cleaning the litter box, or disposing of pet feces. Always wash before you eat, prepare food, take medicines, or smoke.
    * Keep your pet clean and healthy. Make sure that vaccinations are up to date.
    * If you plan to adopt a pet, get one that is greater than 1 year old. Kittens and puppies are more likely to scratch and bite and to contract infections.
    * Have all pets surgically spayed or neutered. Neutered animals are less likely to roam, and therefore less likely to get diseases.
    * Bring your pet to a veterinarian if the animal has diarrhea, is coughing and sneezing, has decreased appetite, or has lost weight. 

Tips if you have a dog or cat:

    * Have your cat tested for the feline leukemia and feline immunodeficiency viruses. Although these viruses DO NOT spread to humans, they affect the cat's immune system. This puts your cat at risk of other infections that may be spread to humans.
    * Feed your pet only commercially prepared food and treats. Animals can get sick from undercooked or raw meat or eggs. Cats can get infections, such as toxoplasmosis, by eating wild animals.
    * DO NOT let your pet drink from the toilet. Several infections can be spread this way.
    * Keep your pet's nails short. You should avoid rough play with your cat, as well as any situation where you could get scratched. Cats can spread _Bartonella henselae_ , the organism responsible for cat scratch disease.
    * Take measures to prevent flea or tick infestations. Several bacterial and viral infections are spread by fleas and ticks. Dogs and cats can use flea collars. Permethrin-treated bedding can decrease risk of flea and tick infestations.
    * In rare cases, dogs can spread a condition called kennel cough to people with weakened immune systems. If possible, DO NOT place your dog in a boarding kennel or other high-risk environment. 

If you have a cat litter box:

    * Keep your cat's litter box away from eating areas. Use disposable pan liners so that the entire pan can be cleaned with each litter change.
    * If possible, have someone else change the litter pan. If you must change the litter, wear rubber gloves and a disposable face mask.
    * The litter should be scooped daily to prevent the risk of toxoplasmosis infection. Similar precautions should be taken when cleaning a bird's cage. 

Other important tips:

    * DO NOT adopt wild or exotic animals. These animals are more likely to bite. They often carry rare but serious diseases.
    * Reptiles carry a type of bacteria called salmonella. If you own a reptile, wear gloves when handling the animal or its feces because salmonella is easily passed from animal to human.
    * Wear rubber gloves when handling or cleaning fish tanks. 

For more information on pet-related infections, contact your veterinarian or
the Humane Society in your area.

## Alternative Names

AIDS patients and pets; Bone marrow and organ transplant patients and pets;
Chemotherapy patients and pets

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Healthy pets, healthy
people. www.cdc.gov/healthypets. Updated October 29, 2019. Accessed November
7, 2019.

Freifeld AG, Kaul DR. Infection in the patient with cancer. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 34.

Goldstein EJC, Abrahamian FM. Bites. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 315.

Lipkin WI. Zoonoses. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 317.

## Review Date 6/13/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Internal
review and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Pet Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PetHealth_thumb.jpg)Pet Health
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

