Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000355.htm    
                                Description: &quot;Screen time&quot; is a term used for activities done in front of a screen, such as watching TV, working on a computer, or playing video games. Screen time is sedentary activity, meaning you are being physically    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Screen time and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000355.htm

# Screen time and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

"Screen time" is a term used for activities done in front of a screen, such as
watching TV, working on a computer, or playing video games. Screen time is
sedentary activity, meaning you are being physically inactive while sitting
down. Very little energy is used during screen time.

Most American children spend about 3 hours a day watching TV. Added together,
all types of screen time can total 5 to 7 hours a day.

Too much screen time can:

    * Make it hard for your child to sleep at night
    * Raise your child's risk for attention problems, anxiety, and depression
    * Raise your child's risk for gaining too much weight (obesity) 

Screen time increases your child's risk for obesity because:

    * Sitting and watching a screen is time that is not spent being physically active.
    * TV commercials and other screen ads can lead to unhealthy food choices. Most of the time, the foods in ads that are aimed at kids are high in sugar, salt, or fats.
    * Children eat more when they are watching TV, especially if they see ads for food. 

Computers can help kids with their schoolwork. But surfing the internet,
spending too much time on Facebook, or watching YouTube videos is considered
unhealthy screen time.

## Current Screen Time Guidelines

Children under age 2 should have no screen time.

Limit screen time to 1 to 2 hours a day for children over age 2.

Despite what ads may say, videos that are aimed at very young children do not
improve their development.

## How to Decrease Screen Time

Cutting down to 2 hours a day can be hard for some children because TV may be
such a large part of their daily routines. But you can help your children by
telling them how sedentary activities affect their overall health. Talk to
them about things they can do to be healthier.

To decrease screen time:

    * Remove the TV or computer from your child's bedroom.
    * DO NOT allow TV watching during meals or homework.
    * DO NOT let your child eat while watching TV or using the computer.
    * DO NOT leave the TV on for background noise. Turn on the radio instead, or have no background noise.
    * Decide which programs to watch ahead of time. Turn off the TV when those programs are over.
    * Suggest other activities, such as family board games, puzzles, or going for a walk.
    * Keep a record of how much time is spent in front of a screen. Try to spend the same amount of time being active.
    * Be a good role model as a parent. Decrease your own screen time to 2 hours a day.
    * If it is hard not having the TV on, try using a sleep function so it turns off automatically.
    * Challenge your family to go 1 week without watching TV or doing other screen-time activities. Find things to do with your time that get you moving and burning energy. 

## References

Baum RA. Positive parenting and support. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 19.

Gahagan S. Overweight and obesity. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 60.

Strasburger VC, Jordan AB, Donnerstein E. Health effects of media on children
and adolescents. _Pediatrics_. 2010;125(4):756-767. PMID: 20194281
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20194281.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Health Risks of an Inactive Lifestyle

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

