Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001334.htm    
                                Description: Rabies is a deadly viral infection that is mainly spread by infected animals.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rabies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001334.htm

# Rabies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rabies is a deadly viral infection that is mainly spread by infected animals.

## Causes

The infection is caused by rabies virus. Rabies is spread by infected saliva
that enters the body through a bite or broken skin. The virus travels from the
wound to the brain, where it causes swelling or inflammation. This
inflammation leads to symptoms of the disease. Most rabies deaths occur in
children.

In the past, human rabies cases in the United States usually resulted from a
dog bite. Recently, more cases of human rabies have been linked to bats and
raccoons. Dog bites are a common cause of rabies in developing countries,
especially Asia and Africa. There have been no reports of rabies caused by dog
bites in the United States for a number of years due to widespread animal
vaccination.

Other wild animals that can spread the rabies virus include:

    * Foxes
    * Skunks

In rare cases, rabies has been transmitted without an actual bite. This type
of infection is believed to be caused by infected saliva that has gotten into
the air, usually in bat caves.

## Symptoms

The time between infection and when you get sick ranges from 10 days to 7
years. This time period is called the incubation period. The average
incubation period is 3 to 12 weeks.

Fear of water (hydrophobia) is the most common symptom. Other symptoms may
include:

    * Drooling
    * Seizures
    * Bite site is very sensitive
    * Mood changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Loss of feeling in an area of the body
    * Loss of muscle function
    * Low-grade fever (102Â°F or 38.8Â°C, or lower) with headache
    * Muscle spasms
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Pain at the site of the bite
    * Restlessness
    * Swallowing difficulty (drinking causes spasms of the voice box) 
    * Hallucinations

## Exams and Tests

If an animal bites you, try to gather as much information about the animal as
possible. Call your local animal control authorities to safely capture the
animal. If rabies is suspected, the animal will be watched for signs of
rabies.

A special test called immunofluorescence is used to look at the brain tissue
after an animal is dead. This test can reveal whether the animal had rabies.

The health care provider will examine you and look at the bite. The wound will
be cleaned and treated.

The same test used on animals can be done to check for rabies in humans. The
test uses a piece of skin from the neck. The provider may also look for the
rabies virus in your saliva or spinal fluid, although these tests are not as
sensitive and may need to be repeated.

A spinal tap may be done to look for signs of the infection in your spinal
fluid. Other tests done may include:

    * MRI of brain
    * CT head

## Treatment

The aim of the treatment is to relieve the symptoms. Clean the wound well with
soap and water and seek professional medical help. You will need a provider to
clean the wound and remove any foreign objects. Most of the time, stitches
should not be used for animal bite wounds.

If there is any risk of rabies, you will be given a series of a preventive
vaccine. The vaccine is generally given in 5 doses over 28 days. Antibiotics
have no effect on the rabies virus.

Most people also receive a treatment called human rabies immunoglobulin
(HRIG). This treatment is given the day the bite occurred.

Call your provider right away after an animal bite or after being exposed to
animals such as bats, foxes, and skunks. They may carry rabies.

    * Call even when no bite took place.
    * Immunization and treatment for possible rabies are recommended for at least up to 14 days after exposure or a bite.

There is no known treatment for people with symptoms of a rabies infection,
but there have been a few reports of people surviving with experimental
treatments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It is possible to prevent rabies if you get the vaccine soon after the bite.
To date, no one in the United States has developed rabies when they were given
the vaccine promptly and appropriately.

Once the symptoms appear, the person rarely survives the disease, even with
treatment. Death from respiratory failure usually occurs within 7 days after
symptoms start.

## Possible Complications

Rabies is a life-threatening infection. Left untreated, rabies can lead to
coma and death.

In rare cases, some people may have an allergic reaction to the rabies
vaccine.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
an animal bites you.

## Prevention

To help prevent rabies:

    * Avoid contact with animals you don't know.
    * Get vaccinated if you work in a high-risk occupation or travel to countries with a high rate of rabies.
    * Make sure your pets receive the proper immunizations. Ask your veterinarian.
    * Make sure that your pet does not come in contact with any wild animals.
    * Follow quarantine regulations on importing dogs and other mammals in disease-free countries.

## Alternative Names

Hydrophobia; Animal bite - rabies; Dog bite - rabies; Bat bite - rabies;
Raccoon bites - rabies

## Images

    * ![Rabies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17261t.jpg)Rabies
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Rabies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19621t.jpg)Rabies

## References

Bullard Berent J. Rabies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 123.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Rabies.
www.cdc.gov/rabies/index.html. Updated September 24, 2018. Accessed October 8,
2018.

Singh K, Rupprecht CE, Bleck TP. Rabies (rhabdoviruses). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rabies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rabies2_thumb.jpg)Rabies _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

