Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000127.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary aspergilloma is a mass caused by a fungal infection. It usually grows in lung cavities. The infection can also appear in the brain, kidney, or other organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary aspergilloma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000127.htm

# Pulmonary aspergilloma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary aspergilloma is a mass caused by a fungal infection. It usually
grows in lung cavities. The infection can also appear in the brain, kidney, or
other organs.

## Causes

Aspergillosis is an infection caused by the fungus aspergillus. Aspergillomas
are formed when the fungus grows in a clump in a lung cavity. The cavity is
often created by a previous condition. Cavities in the lung may be caused by
diseases such as:

    * Tuberculosis
    * Coccidioidomycosis
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Histoplasmosis
    * Lung abscess
    * Lung cancer
    * Sarcoidosis

The most common species of fungus that causes disease in humans is
_Aspergillus fumigatus_.

Aspergillus is a common fungus. It grows on dead leaves, stored grain, bird
droppings, compost piles, and other decaying vegetation.

## Symptoms

You may not have symptoms. When symptoms do develop, they can include:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough
    * Coughing up blood, which can be a life-threatening sign
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Unintentional weight loss

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may suspect you have a fungal infection after x-rays
of your lungs show the ball of fungus. Other tests that may be done include:

    * Biopsy of lung tissue
    * Blood test for presence of aspergillus in the body (galactomannan)
    * Blood test to detect immune response to aspergillus (specific antibodies for aspergillus)
    * Bronchoscopy or bronchoscopy with lavage
    * Chest CT
    * Sputum culture

## Treatment

Many people never develop symptoms. Often, no treatment is needed, unless you
are coughing up blood.

Sometimes, antifungal medicines may be used.

If you have bleeding in the lungs, your provider may inject dye into the blood
vessels (angiography) to find the site of bleeding. The bleeding is stopped by
either:

    * Surgery to remove the aspergilloma
    * Procedure that inserts material into the blood vessels (embolization) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome can be good in many people. However, it depends on the severity of
the condition and your overall health.

Surgery may be very successful in some cases, but it is complex and can have a
high risk of serious complications.

## Possible Complications

Complications of pulmonary aspergilloma may include:

    * Difficulty breathing that gets worse
    * Massive bleeding from the lung
    * Spread of the infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you cough up blood, and be sure to mention any other
symptoms that have developed.

## Prevention

People who have had related lung infections or who have weakened immune
systems should try to avoid environments where the aspergillus fungus is
found.

## Alternative Names

Fungus ball; Mycetoma; Aspergilloma; Aspergillosis - pulmonary aspergilloma

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1610t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1611t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan
    * ![Aspergilloma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17263t.jpg)Aspergilloma
    * ![Pulmonary aspergillosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17264t.jpg)Pulmonary aspergillosis
    * ![Aspergillosis - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2330t.jpg)Aspergillosis - chest x-ray
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Horan-Saullo JL, Alexander BD. Opportunistic mycoses. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 38.

Patterson TF, Thompson GR 3rd, Denning DW, et al. Practice guidelines for the
diagnosis and management of aspergillosis: 2016 update by the Infectious
Diseases Society of America. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2016;63(4):e1-e60. PMID:
27365388 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27365388.

Walsh TJ. Aspergillosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 339.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Aspergillosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AspergillosisII_thumb.jpg)Aspergillosis
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

