Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001326.htm    
                                Description: Aspergillosis is an infection or allergic response due to the aspergillus fungus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aspergillosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001326.htm

# Aspergillosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aspergillosis is an infection or allergic response due to the aspergillus
fungus.

## Causes

Aspergillosis is caused by a fungus called aspergillus. The fungus is often
found growing on dead leaves, stored grain, compost piles, or in other
decaying vegetation. It can also be found on marijuana leaves.

Although most people are often exposed to aspergillus, infections caused by
the fungus rarely occur in people who have a healthy immune system.

There are several forms of aspergillosis:

    * Allergic pulmonary aspergillosis is an allergic reaction to the fungus. This infection usually develops in people who already have lung problems such as asthma or cystic fibrosis.
    * Aspergilloma is a growth (fungus ball) that develops in an area of past lung disease or lung scarring such as tuberculosis or lung abscess.
    * Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is a serious infection with pneumonia. It can spread to other parts of the body. This infection occurs most often in people with a weakened immune system. This can be from cancer, AIDS, leukemia, an organ transplant, chemotherapy, or other conditions or drugs that lower the number or function of white blood cells or weaken the immune system. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the type of infection.

Symptoms of allergic pulmonary aspergillosis may include:

    * Cough
    * Coughing up blood or brownish mucus plugs
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Wheezing
    * Weight loss 

Other symptoms depend on the part of the body affected, and may include:

    * Bone pain
    * Chest pain
    * Chills
    * Decreased urine output
    * Headaches
    * Increased phlegm production, which may be bloody
    * Shortness of breath
    * Skin sores (lesions)
    * Vision problems 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about the
symptoms.

Tests to diagnose aspergillus infection include:

    * Aspergillus antibody test
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count
    * CT scan
    * Galactomannan (a sugar molecule from the fungus that is sometimes found in the blood)
    * Immunoglobulin E (IgE) blood level
    * Lung function tests
    * Sputum stain and culture for fungus (looking for aspergillus)
    * Tissue biopsy

## Treatment

A fungus ball is usually not treated with antifungal medicines unless there is
bleeding into the lung tissue. In such a case, surgery and medicines are
needed.

Invasive aspergillosis is treated with several weeks of an antifungal
medicine. It can be given by mouth or IV (into a vein). Endocarditis caused by
aspergillus is treated by surgically replacing the infected heart valves.
Long-term antifungal drugs are also needed.

Allergic aspergillosis is treated with drugs that suppress the immune system
(immunosuppressive drugs), such as prednisone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, people with allergic aspergillosis usually get better over
time. It is common for the disease to come back (relapse) and need repeat
treatment.

If invasive aspergillosis does not get better with drug treatment, it
eventually leads to death. The outlook for invasive aspergillosis also depends
on the person's underlying disease and immune system health.

## Possible Complications

Health problems from the disease or treatment include:

    * Amphotericin B can cause kidney damage and unpleasant side effects such as fever and chills
    * Bronchiectasis (permanent scarring and enlargement of the small sacs in the lungs)
    * Invasive lung disease can cause massive bleeding from the lung
    * Mucus plugs in the airways
    * Permanent airway blockage
    * Respiratory failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of aspergillosis or if you have a
weakened immune system and develop a fever.

## Prevention

Precautions should be taken when using medicines that suppress the immune
system.

## Alternative Names

Aspergillus infection

## Images

    * ![Aspergilloma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17263t.jpg)Aspergilloma
    * ![Pulmonary aspergillosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17264t.jpg)Pulmonary aspergillosis
    * ![Aspergillosis - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2330t.jpg)Aspergillosis - chest x-ray

## References

Patterson TF. _Aspergillus_ species. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 259.

Walsh TJ. Aspergillosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 339.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aspergillosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AspergillosisII_thumb.jpg)Aspergillosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

