Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000875.htm    
                                Description: Athlete    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Athlete's foot

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000875.htm

# Athlete's foot

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Athlete's foot is an infection of the feet caused by fungus. The medical term
is tinea pedis, or ringworm of the foot.

## Causes

Athlete's foot occurs when a certain fungus grows on the skin of your feet.
The same fungus may also grow on other parts of the body. However, the feet
are most commonly affected, especially between the toes.

Athlete's foot is the most common type of tinea infection. The fungus thrives
in warm, moist areas. Your risk for getting athlete's foot increases if you:

    * Wear closed shoes, especially if they are plastic-lined
    * Keep your feet wet for long periods
    * Sweat a lot
    * Develop a minor skin or nail injury 

Athlete's foot is easily spread. It can be passed through direct contact or
contact with items such as shoes, stockings, and shower or pool surfaces.

## Symptoms

The most common symptom is cracked, flaking, peeling skin between the toes or
on the side of the foot. Other symptoms can include:

    * Red and itchy skin
    * Burning or stinging pain
    * Blisters that ooze or get crusty

If the fungus spreads to your nails, they can become discolored, thick, and
even crumble.

Athlete's foot may occur at the same time as other fungal or yeast skin
infections such as jock itch.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose athlete's foot simply by looking at
your skin. If tests are needed, they may include:

    * A simple office test called a KOH exam to check for fungus
    * Skin culture
    * A skin biopsy may also be performed with a special stain called PAS to identify fungus 

## Treatment

Over-the-counter antifungal powders or creams can help control the infection:

    * These contain medicine such as miconazole, clotrimazole, terbinafine, or tolnaftate.
    * Keep using the medicine for 1 to 2 weeks after the infection has cleared to prevent it from returning. 

In addition:

    * Keep your feet clean and dry, especially between your toes.
    * Wash your feet thoroughly with soap and water and dry the area carefully and completely. Try to do this at least twice a day.
    * To widen and keep the web space (area between the toes) dry, use lamb's wool. This can be bought at a drugstore.
    * Wear clean cotton socks. Change your socks and shoes as often as needed to keep your feet dry.
    * Wear sandals or flip-flops at a public shower or pool.
    * Use antifungal or drying powders to prevent athlete's foot if you tend to get it often, or you frequent places where athlete's foot fungus is common (like public showers).
    * Wear shoes that are well-ventilated and made of natural material such as leather. It may help to alternate shoes each day, so they can completely dry between wearings. Do not wear plastic-lined shoes. 

If athlete's foot does not get better in 2 to 4 weeks with self-care, or
frequently returns, see your provider. Your provider may prescribe:

    * Antifungal medicines to take by mouth
    * Antibiotics to treat bacterial infections that occur from scratching
    * Topical creams that kill the fungus 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Athlete's foot almost always responds well to self-care, although it may come
back. Long-term medicine and preventive measures may be needed. The infection
can spread to the toenails.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if:

    * Your foot is swollen and warm to the touch, especially if there are red streaks or pain. These are signs of a possible bacterial infection. Other signs include pus, drainage, and fever.
    * Athlete's foot symptoms do not go away within 2 to 4 weeks of self-care treatments. 

## Alternative Names

Tinea pedis; Fungal infection - feet; Tinea of the foot; Infection - fungal -
feet; Ringworm - foot

## Images

    * ![Athlete's foot - tinea pedis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2468t.jpg)Athlete's foot - tinea pedis

## References

Elewski BE, Hughey LC, Hunt KM, Hay RJ. Fungal diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 77.

Hay RJ. Dermatophytosis (ringworm) and other superficial mycoses. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 268.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Athlete's
Foot](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Athlete'sFoot_thumb.jpg)Athlete's Foot
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

