Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007758.htm    
                                Description: Candida auris (C auris) is a type of yeast (fungus). It can cause a severe infection in hospital or nursing home patients. These patients are often already very sick.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Candida auris infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007758.htm

# Candida auris infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

_Candida auris_ ( _C auris_ ) is a type of yeast (fungus). It can cause a
severe infection in hospital or nursing home patients. These patients are
often already very sick.

 _C auris_ infections often do not get better with the antifungal medicines
that usually treat candida infections. When this occurs, the fungus is said to
be resistant to antifungal medicines. This makes it very hard to treat the
infection.

 _C auris_ infection is rare in healthy people.

## Causes

Some patients people carry _C auris_ on their bodies without it making them
sick. This is called "colonization." This means they can easily spread the
germ without knowing it. However, people who are colonized with _C auris_ are
still at risk for getting an infection from the fungus.

 _C auris_ can be spread from person-to-person or from contact with objects or
equipment. Hospital or long-term nursing home patients can be colonized with
_C auris_. They can spread it to objects in the facility, such as bedside
tables and hand rails. Health care providers and visiting family and friends
who have contact with a patient with _C auris_ can spread it to other
patients.

Once _C auris_ enters the body, it can cause a severe infection of the
bloodstream and organs. This is more likely to occur in people with a weakened
immune system. People who have breathing or feeding tubes or IV catheters are
at the highest risk of infection.

Other risk factors for _C auris_ infection include:

    * Living in a nursing home or making many visits to the hospital
    * Taking antibiotic or antifungal medicines often
    * Having many medical problems
    * Having had a recent surgery 

_C auris_ infections have occurred in people of all ages.

## Symptoms

_C auris_ infections can be hard to identity for the following reasons:

    * Symptoms of a _C auris_ infection are similar to those caused by other fungal infections.
    * Patients who have a _C auris_ infection are often already very sick. Symptoms of infection are hard to tell apart from other symptoms.
    *  _C auris_ can be mistaken for other types of fungus unless special lab tests are used to identify it.

High fever with chills that does not get better after taking antibiotics may
be a sign of a _C auris_ infection. Tell your provider right away if you or a
loved one has an infection that is not getting better, even after treatment.

## Exams and Tests

A _C auris_ infection can't be diagnosed using standard methods. If your
provider thinks your illness is caused by _C auris_ , they will need to use
special lab tests.

Blood tests include:

    * CBC with differential
    * Blood cultures
    * Basic metabolic panel
    * B-1,3 glucan test (testing for a specific sugar found on some fungi)

Your provider also may suggest testing if they suspect you have been colonized
with _C auris_ , or if you have tested positive for _C auris_ before.

## Treatment

_C auris_ infections are often treated with antifungal medicines called
echinocandins. Other types of antifungal medicines also may be used.

Some _C auris_ infections do not respond to any of the main classes of
antifungal medicines. In such cases, more than one antifungal drug or higher
doses of these drugs may be used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Infections with _C auris_ can be hard to treat because of its resistance to
antifungal medicines. How well a person does will depend on:

    * How severe the infection is
    * Whether the infection has spread to the bloodstream and organs
    * The person's overall health

## Possible Complications

_C auris_ infections that spread to the bloodstream and organs in very ill
people can often lead to death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * You have fever and chills that don't improve, even after antibiotic treatment
    * You have a fungal infection that doesn't improve, even after antifungal treatment
    * You develop fever and chills soon after coming in contact with a person who has a _C auris_ infection

## Prevention

Follow these steps to prevent the spread of C auris:

    * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. Or, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Do this before and after contact with people who have this infection and before and after touching any equipment in their room.
    * Make sure health care providers wash their hands or use hand sanitizer and wear gloves and gowns when interacting with patients. Don't be afraid to speak up if you notice any lapses in good hygiene.
    * If a loved one has a _C auris_ infection, they should be isolated from other patients and kept in a separate room.
    * If you are visiting your loved one who has been isolated from other patients, please follow the directions of the healthcare workers on the procedure to enter and exit the room to minimize the chance of spreading the fungus.
    * These precautions should also be used for people who are colonized with _C auris_ until their provider determines they can no longer spread the fungus.

Contact your provider right away if you suspect that you or someone you know
has this infection.

## Alternative Names

Candida auris; Candida; C auris; Fungal - auris; Fungus - auris

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. _Candida auris_.
www.cdc.gov/fungal/candida-auris/index.html. Updated April 30, 2019. Accessed
May 6, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. _Candida auris_ : A drug-
resistant germ that spreads in healthcare facilities.
www.cdc.gov/fungal/candida-auris/c-auris-drug-resistant.html. Updated:
December 21, 2018. Accessed May 6, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. _Candida auris_
colonization. www.cdc.gov/fungal/candida-auris/fact-sheets/c-auris-
colonization.html. Updated: December 21, 2018. Accessed May 6, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. _Candida auris_
information for patients and family members. www.cdc.gov/fungal/candida-
auris/patients-qa.html. Updated: December 21, 2018. Accessed May 6, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Infection prevention and
control for _Candida auris_. www.cdc.gov/fungal/candida-auris/c-auris-
infection-control.html. Updated: December 21, 2018. Accessed May 6, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Treatment and management
of infections and colonization. www.cdc.gov/fungal/candida-auris/c-auris-
treatment.html. Updated: December 21, 2018. Accessed May 6, 2019.

Cortegiani A, Misseri G, Fasciana T, Giammanco A, Giarratano A, Chowdhary A.
Epidemiology, clinical characteristics, resistance, and treatment of
infections by _Candida auris_. _J Intensive Care_. 2018;6:69. PMID: 30397481
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30397481.

Jeffery-Smith A, Taori SK, Schelenz S, et al. _Candida auris_ : a review of
the literature. _Clin Microbiol Rev_. 2017;31(1). PMID: 29142078
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29142078.

Sears D, Schwartz BS. _Candida auris_ : an emerging multidrug-resistant
pathogen. _Int J Infect Dis_. 2017;63:95-98. PMID: 28888662
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28888662.

## Review Date 5/11/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

