Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003736.htm    
                                Description: A sputum fungal smear is a laboratory test that looks for fungus in a sputum sample.&#10;Sputum is the material that comes up from air passages when you cough deeply.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sputum fungal smear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003736.htm

# Sputum fungal smear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sputum fungal smear is a laboratory test that looks for fungus in a sputum
sample. Sputum is the material that comes up from air passages when you cough
deeply.

## How the Test is Performed

A sputum sample is needed. You will be asked to cough deeply and spit any
material that comes up from your lungs into a special container.

The sample is sent to a lab and examined under a microscope.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order this test if you have symptoms or signs of
a lung infection, such as if you have a weakened immune system due to certain
medicines or diseases such as cancer or HIV/AIDS.

## Normal Results

A normal (negative) result means no fungus was seen in the test sample.

Some labs use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be a sign of a fungal infection. Such infections include:

    * Aspergillosis
    * Blastomycosis
    * Coccidioidomycosis
    * Cryptococcosis
    * Histoplasmosis

## Risks

There are no risks associated with a sputum fungal smear.

## Alternative Names

KOH test; Fungal smear - sputum; Fungal wet prep; Wet prep - fungal

## Images

    * ![Sputum test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9946t.jpg)Sputum test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Sputum, fungus - culture. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1038-1039.

Horan-Saullo JL, Alexander BD. Opportunistic mycoses. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

