Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001330.htm    
                                Description: Fungal nail infection is a fungus growing in and around your fingernail or toenail.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fungal nail infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001330.htm

# Fungal nail infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fungal nail infection is a fungus growing in and around your fingernail or
toenail.

## Causes

Fungi can live on the dead tissues of the hair, nails, and outer skin layers.

Common fungal infections include:

    * Athlete's foot
    * Jock itch
    * Ringworm on the skin of the body or head 

Fungal nail infections often start after a fungal infection on the feet. They
occur more often in toenails than in fingernails. And they are most often seen
in adults as they age.

You are at higher risk of getting a fungal nail infection if you have any of
the following:

    * Diabetes
    * Peripheral vascular disease
    * Peripheral neuropathies
    * Minor skin or nail injuries
    * Deformed nail or nail disease
    * Moist skin for a long time
    * Immune system problems
    * Family history
    * Wear footwear that does not allow air to reach your feet

## Symptoms

Symptoms include nail changes on one or more nails (usually toenails), such
as:

    * Brittleness
    * Change in nail shape
    * Crumbling of the outside edges of the nail
    * Debris trapped under the nail
    * Loosening or lifting up of the nail
    * Loss of luster and shine on the nail surface
    * Thickening of the nail
    * White or yellow streaks on the side of the nail 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your nails to find out if you have a
fungal infection.

The diagnosis can be confirmed by looking at scrapings from the nail under a
microscope. This can help determine the type of fungus. Samples can also be
sent to a lab for a culture. (Results may take 4 to 6 weeks.)

## Treatment

Over-the-counter creams and ointments usually do not help treat this
condition.

Prescription antifungal medicines that you take by mouth may help clear the
fungus.

    * You will need to take the medicine for about 2 to 3 months for toenails; a shorter time for fingernails.
    * Your provider will do lab tests to check for liver damage while you are taking these medicines. 

Laser treatments may sometimes get rid of the fungus in the nails. This is
less effective than medicines.

In some cases, you may need to have the nail removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The fungal nail infection is cured by the growth of new, non-infected nails.
Nails grow slowly. Even if treatment is successful, it may take up to a year
for a new clear nail to grow.

Fungal nail infections may be hard to treat. Medicines clear up fungus in
about one half of people who try them.

Even when treatment works the fungus may return.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have fungal nail infections that do not go away
    * Your fingers become painful, red, or drain pus

## Prevention

Good general health and hygiene help prevent fungal infections.

    * DO NOT share tools used for manicures and pedicures.
    * Keep your skin clean and dry.
    * Take proper care of your nails.
    * Wash and dry your hands thoroughly after touching any kind of fungal infection. 

## Alternative Names

Nails - fungal infection; Onychomycosis; Tinea unguium

## Images

    * ![Nail infection - candidal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1877t.jpg)Nail infection - candidal
    * ![Yeast and mold](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19348t.jpg)Yeast and mold

## References

Habif TP. Nail diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Holguin T, Mishra K. Fungal infections of the skin. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel
DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:981-984.

Tosti A. Tinea unguium. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH,
eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 243.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Nail Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NailDiseases_thumb.jpg)Nail
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

