Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000606.htm    
                                Description: Oral herpes is an infection of the lips, mouth, or gums due to the herpes simplex virus. It causes small, painful blisters commonly called cold sores or fever blisters. Oral herpes is also called herpes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Herpes - oral

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000606.htm

# Herpes - oral

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Oral herpes is an infection of the lips, mouth, or gums due to the herpes
simplex virus. It causes small, painful blisters commonly called cold sores or
fever blisters. Oral herpes is also called herpes labialis.

## Causes

Oral herpes is a common infection of the mouth area. It is caused by the
herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). Most people in the United States are
infected with this virus by age 20.

After the first infection, the virus goes to sleep (becomes dormant) in the
nerve tissues in the face. Sometimes, the virus later wakes up (reactivates),
causing cold sores.

Herpes virus type 2 (HSV-2) most often causes genital herpes. However,
sometimes HSV-2 is spread to the mouth during oral sex, causing oral herpes.

Herpes viruses spread most easily from individuals with an active outbreak or
sore. You can catch this virus if you:

    * Have intimate or personal contact with someone who is infected
    * Touch an open herpes sore or something that has been in contact with the herpes virus, such as infected razors, towels, dishes, and other shared items

Parents may spread the virus to their children during regular daily
activities.

## Symptoms

Some people get mouth ulcers when they first come into contact with HSV-1
virus. Others have no symptoms. Symptoms most often occur in kids between 1
and 5 years old.

Symptoms may be mild or severe. They most often appear within 1 to 3 weeks
after you come into contact with the virus. They may last up to 3 weeks.

Warning symptoms include:

    * Itching of the lips or skin around the mouth
    * Burning near the lips or mouth area
    * Tingling near the lips or mouth area 

Before blisters appear, you may have:

    * Sore throat
    * Fever
    * Swollen glands
    * Painful swallowing 

Blisters or a rash may form on your:

    * Gums
    * Lips
    * Mouth
    * Throat 

Many blisters are called an outbreak. You may have:

    * Red blisters that break open and leak
    * Small blisters filled with clear yellowish fluid
    * Several smaller blisters that may grow together into a large blister
    * Yellow and crusty blister as it heals, which eventually turns into pink skin 

Symptoms may be triggered by:

    * Menstruation or hormone changes
    * Being out in the sun
    * Fever
    * Stress 

If the symptoms return later, they are usually more mild in most cases.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose oral herpes by looking at your mouth
area. Sometimes, a sample of the sore is taken and sent to a laboratory for
closer examination. Tests may include:

    * Viral culture
    * Viral DNA test
    * Tzanck test to check for HSV 

## Treatment

Symptoms may go away on their own without treatment in 1 to 2 weeks.

Your provider can prescribe medicines to fight the virus. This is called
antiviral medicine. It can help reduce pain and make your symptoms go away
sooner. Medicines used to treat mouth sores include:

    * Acyclovir
    * Famciclovir
    * Valacyclovir 

These medicines work best if you take them when you have warning signs of a
mouth sore, before any blisters develop. If you get mouth sores frequently,
you may need to take these medicines all the time.

    * Antiviral skin creams may also be used. However, they are expensive and often only shorten the outbreak by a few hours to a day. 

The following steps can also help make you feel better:

    * Apply ice or a warm washcloth to the sores to help ease pain.
    * Wash the blisters gently with germ-fighting (antiseptic) soap and water. This helps prevent spreading the virus to other body areas.
    * Avoid hot beverages, spicy and salty foods, and citrus.
    * Gargle with cool water or eat popsicles.
    * Rinse with salt water.
    * Take a pain reliever such as acetaminophen (Tylenol). 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Oral herpes most often goes away by itself in 1 to 2 weeks. However, it may
come back.

Herpes infection may be severe and dangerous if:

    * It occurs in or near the eye.
    * You have a weakened immune system due to certain diseases and medicines.

## Possible Complications

Herpes infection of the eye is a leading cause of blindness in the United
States. It causes scarring of the cornea.

Other complications of oral herpes may include:

    * Return of mouth sores and blisters
    * Spread of the virus to other skin areas
    * Bacterial skin infection
    * Widespread body infection, which may be life threatening in people who have a weakened immune system due to atopic dermatitis, cancer, or HIV infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Symptoms that are severe or that don't go away after 2 weeks
    * Sores or blisters near your eyes
    * Herpes symptoms and a weakened immune system due to certain diseases or medicines 

## Prevention

Here are some tips to prevent mouth sores:

    * Apply sunblock or lip balm containing zinc oxide to your lips before you go outside.
    * Apply a moisturizing balm to prevent the lips from becoming too dry.
    * Avoid direct contact with herpes sores.
    * Wash items such as towels and linens in boiling hot water after each use.
    * Do not share utensils, straws, glasses, or other items if someone has oral herpes. 

Do not have oral sex if you have oral herpes, especially if you have blisters.
You can spread the virus to the genitals. Both oral and genital herpes viruses
can sometimes be spread, even when you do not have mouth sores or blisters.

## Alternative Names

Cold sore; Fever blister; Oral herpes simplex; Herpes labialis; Herpes simplex

## Images

    * ![Herpes simplex - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2161t.jpg)Herpes simplex - close-up

## References

Habif TP. Warts, herpes simplex, and other viral infections. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Hupp WS. Diseases of the mouth. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:969-975.

Lingen MW. Head and neck. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and
Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

Whitley RJ, Gnann JW. Herpes simplex virus infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 350.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cold Sores](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdSores_thumb.jpg)Cold Sores
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

