Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001383.htm    
                                Description: Herpetic stomatitis is a viral infection of the mouth that causes sores and ulcers. These mouth ulcers are not the same as canker sores, which are not caused by a virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Herpetic stomatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001383.htm

# Herpetic stomatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Herpetic stomatitis is a viral infection of the mouth that causes sores and
ulcers. These mouth ulcers are not the same as canker sores, which are not
caused by a virus.

## Causes

Herpetic stomatitis is an infection caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV),
or oral herpes. Young children commonly get it when they are first exposed to
HSV. The first outbreak is usually the most severe. HSV can easily be spread
from one child to another.

If you or another adult in the family has a cold sore, it could have spread to
your child and caused herpetic stomatitis. More likely, you won't know how
your child became infected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Blisters in the mouth, often on the tongue, cheeks, roof of the mouth, gums, and on the border between the inside of the lip and the skin next to it
    * After blisters pop, they form ulcers in the mouth, often on the tongue or cheeks
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Drooling
    * Fever, often as high as 104Â°FÂ (40Â°C), which may occur 1 to 2 days before blisters and ulcers appear
    * Irritability
    * Mouth pain
    * Swollen gums 

Symptoms may be so uncomfortable that your child doesn't want to eat or drink.

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider can most oftenÂ diagnose this condition by
looking at your child's mouth sores.

Sometimes, special laboratory tests can help confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Your child's provider may prescribe:

    * Acyclovir, a medicine your child takes that fights the virus causing the infection
    * Numbing medicine (viscous lidocaine), which you can apply to your child's mouth to ease severe pain

Use lidocaine with care, because it can numb all feeling in your child's
mouth. This can make it hard for your child to swallow, and may lead to burns
in the mouth or throat from eating hot foods, or cause choking.

There are several things you can do at home to help your child feel better:

    * Give your child cool, noncarbonated, nonacidic drinks, such as water, milk shakes, or diluted apple juice. Dehydration can occur quickly in children, so make sure your child is getting enough fluids.
    * Offer cool, bland, easy-to-swallow foods such as frozen pops, ice cream, mashed potatoes, gelatin, or applesauce.
    * Give your child acetaminophen or ibuprofen for pain. (Never give aspirin to a child under age 2. It can cause Reye syndrome, a rare, but serious illness.)
    * Bad breath and a coated tongue are common side effects. Gently brush your child's teeth every day.
    * Make sure your child gets plenty of sleep and rests as much as possible.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your child should recover completely within 10 days without treatment.
Acyclovir may speed up your child's recovery.

Your child will have the herpes virus for life. In most people, the virus
stays inactive in their body. If the virus wakes up again, it most often
causes a cold sore on the mouth. Sometimes, it can affect the inside of the
mouth, but it won't be as severe as the first episode.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child develops a fever followed by a sore mouth,
and your child stops eating and drinking. Your child can quickly become
dehydrated.

If the herpes infection spreads to the eye, it is an emergency and can lead to
blindness. Call your doctor right away.

## Prevention

About 90% of the population carries HSV. There's little you can do to prevent
your child from picking up the virus sometime during childhood.

Your child should avoid all close contact with people who have cold sores. So
if you get a cold sore, explain why you can't kiss your child until the sore
is gone. Your child should also avoid other children with herpetic stomatitis.

If your child has herpetic stomatitis, avoid spreading the virus to other
children. While your child has symptoms:

    * Have your child wash their hands often.
    * Keep toys clean and don't share them with other children.
    * Don't allow children to share dishes, cups, or eating utensils.
    * Don't let your child kiss other children. 

## Alternative Names

Stomatitis - herpetic; Primary herpetic gingivostomatitis

## Images

    * ![Swollen gums](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9358t.jpg)Swollen gums

## References

Dhar V. Common lesions of the oral soft tissues. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 341.

Kimberlin DW, Prober CG. Herpes simplex virus. In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer
M, eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 204.

Martin B, Baumhardt H, D'Alesio A, Woods K. Oral disorders. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cold Sores](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdSores_thumb.jpg)Cold Sores
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

