Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000665.htm    
                                Description: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis is a viral infection of the retina of the eye resulting in inflammation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CMV retinitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000665.htm

# CMV retinitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis is a viral infection of the retina of the eye
resulting in inflammation.

## Causes

CMV retinitis is caused by a member of a group of herpes-type viruses.
Infection with CMV is very common. Most people are exposed to CMV in their
lifetime, but typically only those with weakened immune systems become ill
from CMV infection.

Serious CMV infections can occur in people who have weakened immune systems as
a result of:

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Chemotherapy
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system
    * Organ transplant

## Symptoms

Some people with CMV retinitis have no symptoms.

If there are symptoms, they may include:

    * Blind spots
    * Blurred vision and other vision problems
    * Floaters

Retinitis usually begins in one eye, but often progresses to the other eye.
Without treatment, damage to the retina can lead to blindness in 4 to 6 months
or less.

## Exams and Tests

CMV retinitis is diagnosed through an ophthalmologic exam. Dilation of the
pupils and ophthalmoscopy will show signs of CMV retinitis.

CMV infection can be diagnosed with blood or urine tests that look for
substances specific to the infection. A tissue biopsy can detect the viral
infection and presence of CMV virus particles, but this is rarely done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to stabilize or restore vision and prevent blindness.
Long-term treatment is often needed. Medicines may be given by mouth (orally),
through a vein (intravenously), or injected directly into the eye
(intravitreously).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Even with treatment, the disease can worsen to blindness. This progression may
be because the virus becomes resistant to the antiviral drugs so that the
drugs are no longer effective, or because the person's immune system has
deteriorated further.

CMV retinitis may also lead to retinal detachment, in which the retina
detaches from the back of the eye, causing blindness.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Kidney impairment (from drugs used to treat the condition)
    * Low white blood cell count (from drugs used to treat the condition)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If symptoms worsen or do not improve with treatment, or if new symptoms
develop, call your health care provider.

People with HIV/AIDS (especially those with a very low CD4 count) who have
vision problems should make an appointment right away for an eye exam.

## Prevention

A CMV infection usually only causes symptoms in people with a weakened immune
system. Certain medicines (like cancer therapy) and diseases (such as
HIV/AIDS) can cause a weakened immune system.

People with AIDS who have a CD4 count of less than 250 cells/microliter or 250
cells/cubic millimeter should be examined regularly for this condition, even
if they do not have symptoms. If you had CMV retinitis in the past, ask your
provider if you need treatment to prevent its return.

## Alternative Names

Cytomegalovirus retinitis

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![CMV retinitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17120t.jpg)CMV retinitis
    * ![CMV \(cytomegalovirus\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17110t.jpg)CMV (cytomegalovirus)

## References

Crumpacker CS. Cytomegalovirus (CMV). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 140.

Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA. Infection. In: Freund KB, Sarraf
D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA, eds. _The Retinal Atlas_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 5.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Cytomegalovirus
Infections _Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

