Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001343.htm    
                                Description: Congenital cytomegalovirus is a condition that can occur when an infant is infected with a virus called cytomegalovirus (CMV) before birth. Congenital means the condition is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital cytomegalovirus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001343.htm

# Congenital cytomegalovirus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital cytomegalovirus is a condition that can occur when an infant is
infected with a virus called cytomegalovirus (CMV) before birth. Congenital
means the condition is present at birth.

## Causes

Congenital cytomegalovirus occurs when an infected mother passes CMV to the
fetus through the placenta. The mother may not have symptoms, so she may be
unaware that she has CMV.

## Symptoms

Most children infected with CMV at birth do not have symptoms. Those who do
have symptoms may have:

    * Inflammation of the retina
    * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)
    * Large spleen and liver
    * Low birth weight
    * Mineral deposits in the brain
    * Rash at birth
    * Seizures
    * Small head size

## Exams and Tests

During the exam, the health care provider may find:

    * Abnormal breath sounds indicating pneumonia
    * Enlarged liver
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Delayed physical movements (psychomotor retardation) 

Tests include:

    * Antibody titer against CMV for both the mother and infant
    * Bilirubin level and blood tests for liver function
    * CBC
    * CT scan or ultrasound of the head
    * Fundoscopy
    * TORCH screen
    * Urine culture for CMV virus in the first 2 to 3 weeks of life
    * X-ray of the chest

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for congenital CMV. Treatments focus on
specific problems, such as physical therapy and appropriate education for
children with delayed physical movements.

Treatment with antiviral medicines is often used for infants with neurologic
(nervous system) symptoms. This treatment may reduce hearing loss later in the
child's life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most infants who have symptoms of their infection at birth will have
neurologic abnormalities later in life. Most infants without symptoms at birth
will NOT have these problems.

Some children may die while they are still an infant.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Difficulty with physical activities and movement
    * Vision problems or blindness
    * Deafness

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Have your baby checked right away if a provider did not examine your baby
shortly after birth, and you suspect your baby has:

    * A small head
    * Other symptoms of congenital CMV

If your baby has congenital CMV, it is important to follow your provider's
recommendations for well-baby examinations. That way, any growth and
development problems can be identified early and treated promptly.

## Prevention

Cytomegalovirus is almost everywhere in the environment. The US Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend the following steps to reduce
the spread of CMV:

    * Wash hands with soap and water after touching diapers or saliva.
    * Avoid kissing children under the age of 6 on the mouth or cheek.
    * Do not share food, drinks, or eating utensils with young children.
    * Pregnant women working in a day care center should work with children older than age 2Â½.

## Alternative Names

CMV - congenital; Congenital CMV; Cytomegalovirus - congenital

## Images

    * ![Congenital cytomagalovirus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17144t.jpg)Congenital cytomegalovirus
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Beckham JD, Solbrig MV, Tyler KL. Viral encephalitis and meningitis. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 78.

Crumpacker CS. Cytomegalovirus (CMV). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 140.

Huang FAS, Brady RC. Congenital and perinatal infections. In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 131.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Cytomegalovirus
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

