Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000568.htm    
                                Description: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is a disease caused by a type of herpes virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000568.htm

# Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is a disease caused by a type of herpes virus.

## Causes

Infection with CMV is very common. The infection is spread by:

    * Blood transfusions
    * Organ transplants
    * Respiratory droplets
    * Saliva
    * Sexual contact
    * Urine
    * Tears

Most people come into contact with CMV in their lifetime. But usually, it's
people with a weakened immune system, such as those with HIV/AIDS, who become
ill from CMV infection. Some otherwise healthy people with CMV infection
develop a mononucleosis-like syndrome.

CMV is a type of herpes virus. All herpes viruses remain in your body for the
rest of your life after infection. If your immune system becomes weakened in
the future, this virus may have the chance to reactivate, causing symptoms.

## Symptoms

Many people are exposed to CMV early in life, but do not realize it because
they have no symptoms, or they have mild symptoms that resemble the common
cold. These may include:

    * Enlarged lymph nodes, especially in the neck
    * Fever
    * Fatigue
    * Loss of appetite
    * Malaise
    * Muscle aches
    * Rash
    * Sore throat

CMV can cause infections in different parts of the body. Symptoms vary
depending on the area that is affected. Examples of body areas that can be
infected by CMV are:

    * The lungs
    * The stomach or intestine
    * The back of the eye (retina)
    * A baby while still in the womb (congenital CMV)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and feel your belly
area. Your liver and spleen may be tender when they are gently pressed
(palpated). You may have a skin rash.

Special lab tests such as a CMV DNA serum PCR test may be done to check for
presence of substances in your blood produced by CMV. Tests, such as a CMV
antibody test, may be done to check the body's immune response to the CMV
infection.

Other tests may include:

    * Blood tests for platelets and white blood cells
    * Chemistry panel
    * Liver function tests
    * Mono spot test (to distinguish from mono infection)

## Treatment

Most people recover in 4 to 6 weeks without medicine. Rest is needed,
sometimes for a month or longer to regain full activity levels. Painkillers
and warm salt-water gargles can help relieve symptoms.

Antiviral medicines are usually not used in people with healthy immune
function.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome is good with treatment. The symptoms may be relieved in a few weeks to
months.

## Possible Complications

Throat infection is the most common complication. Rare complications include:

    * Colitis
    * Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome
    * Nervous system (neurologic) complications
    * Pericarditis or myocarditis
    * Pneumonia
    * Rupture of the spleen 
    * Inflammation of liver (hepatitis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of CMV
infection.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have sharp, severe sudden pain in your left upper abdomen. This could be a
sign of a ruptured spleen, which may require emergency surgery.

## Prevention

CMV infection can be contagious if the infected person comes in close or
intimate contact with another person. You should avoid kissing and sexual
contact with an infected person.

The virus may also spread among young children in day care settings.

When planning blood transfusions or organ transplants, the CMV status of the
donor can be checked to avoid passing CMV to a recipient who has not had CMV
infection.

## Alternative Names

CMV mononucleosis; Cytomegalovirus; CMV; Human cytomegalovirus; HCMV

## Images

    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1456t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells
    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1457t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cells
    * ![Infectious mononucleosis #3](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1458t.jpg)Infectious mononucleosis #3
    * ![Mononucleosis infecciosa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23227t.jpg)Infectious mononucleosis
    * ![Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2275t.jpg)Mononucleosis - photomicrograph of cell
    * ![Mononucleosis - mouth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3088t.jpg)Mononucleosis - mouth
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and
congenital CMV infection. www.cdc.gov/cmv/clinical/index.html. Updated June 6,
2018. Accessed October 8, 2018.

Crumpacker CS. Cytomegalovirus (CMV). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 140.

Drew WL. Cytomegalovirus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 376.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Cytomegalovirus
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

