Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003546.htm    
                                Description: The CMV blood test determines the presence of substances (proteins) called antibodies to a virus called cytomegalovirus (CMV) in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CMV blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003546.htm

# CMV blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The CMV blood test determines the presence of substances (proteins) called
antibodies to a virus called cytomegalovirus (CMV) in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain,
while others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed to detect current active CMV infection, or past CMV
infection in people who are at risk of reactivation of infection (such as
organ transplant recipients and people with a suppressed immune system). The
test may also be performed to detect CMV infection in newborns.

## Normal Results

People who have never been infected with CMV have no detectable antibodies to
CMV.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The presence of antibodies to CMV indicates a current or past infection with
CMV. If the number of antibodies (called the antibody titer) rises over a few
weeks, it may mean that you have a current or recent infection.

Long-term (chronic) CMV infection (in which the antibody count stays about the
same over time) can reactivate in a person with a suppressed immune system.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Considerations

To detect a blood or organ infection with CMV, the provider can test for the
presence of CMV itself in the blood or a specific organ.

## Alternative Names

CMV antibody tests

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cytomegalovirus antibody â serum. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:431-432.

Crumpacker CS. Cytomegalovirus (CMV). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, UpdatedÂ Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 140.

## Review Date 9/27/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Cytomegalovirus
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

