Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007715.htm    
                                Description: Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is a type of bacteria that infects the stomach. It is very common, affecting about two thirds of the world    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Helicobacter pylori infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007715.htm

# Helicobacter pylori infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

_Helicobacter pylori_ ( _H pylori_ ) is a type of bacteria that infects the
stomach. It is very common, affecting about two thirds of the world's
population and about 30% to 40% of people in the United States. _H pylori_
infection is the most common cause of peptic ulcers. However, the infection
does not cause problems for most people.  

## Causes

_H pylori_ bacteria are most likely passed directly from person to person.
This tends to happen during childhood. The infection remains throughout life
if not treated.

It's not clear how the bacteria are passed from one person to another. The
bacteria may spread from:

    * Mouth-to-mouth contact
    * GI tract illness (particularly when vomiting occurs)
    * Contact with stool (fecal material)
    * Contaminated food and water

The bacteria may trigger ulcers in the following way:

    *  _H pylori_ enters the mucus layer of the stomach and attaches to the stomach lining.
    *  _H pylori_ cause the stomach to produce more stomach acid. This damages the stomach lining, leading to ulcers in some people.

Besides ulcers, _H pylori_ bacteria can also cause a chronic inflammation in
the stomach (gastritis) or the upper part of the small intestine (duodenitis).

 _H pylori_ can also sometimes lead to stomach cancer or a rare type of
stomach lymphoma.

## Symptoms

About 10% to 15% of people infected with _H pylori_ develop peptic ulcer
disease. Small ulcers may not cause any symptoms. Some ulcers can cause
serious bleeding.

An aching or burning pain in your abdomen is a common symptom. The pain may be
worse with an empty stomach. The pain can differ from person to person, and
some people have no pain.

Other symptoms include:

    * Feeling of fullness or bloating and problems drinking as much fluid as usual
    * Hunger and an empty feeling in the stomach, often 1 to 3 hours after a meal
    * Mild nausea that may go away with vomiting
    * Loss of appetite
    * Weight loss without trying
    * Burping
    * Bloody or dark, tarry stools or bloody vomit

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will test you for _H pylori_ if you:

    * Have peptic ulcers or a history of ulcers
    * Have discomfort and pain in the stomach lasting more than a month

Tell your provider about the medicines you take. The nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can also cause ulcers. If you show the symptoms of
infection, the provider may perform following tests for _H pylori_ __. These
include:

    *  **Breath test** \-- urea breath test (Carbon Isotope-urea Breath Test, or UBT). Your provider will make you swallow a special substance that has urea. If _H pylori_ are present, the bacteria turn the urea into carbon dioxide. This is detected and recorded in your exhaled breath after 10 minutes.
    *  **Blood test** \-- measures antibodies to _H pylori_ in your blood.
    *  **Stool test** \-- detects the presence of bacteria in the stool.
    *  **Biopsy** \-- tests a tissue sample taken from the stomach lining using endoscopy. The sample is checked for bacterial infection.

## Treatment

In order for your ulcer to heal and to reduce the chance it will come back,
you will be given medicines to:

    * Kill the _H pylori_ bacteria (if present)
    * Reduce acid levels in the stomach

Take all of your medicines as you have been told. Other lifestyle changes can
also help.

If you have a peptic ulcer and an _H pylori_ infection, treatment is
recommended. The standard treatment involves different combinations of the
following medicines for 10 to 14 days:

    * Antibiotics to kill _H pylori_
    * Proton pump inhibitors to help lower acid levels in the stomach
    * Bismuth (the main ingredient in Pepto-Bismol) may be added to help kill the bacteria

Taking all of these medicines for up to 14 days is not easy. But doing so
gives you the best chance for getting rid of the _H pylori_ bacteria and
preventing ulcers in the future.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If you take your medicines, there is a good chance that the _H pylori_
infection will be cured. You will be much less likely to get another ulcer.

Sometimes, _H pylori_ can be hard to fully cure. Repeated courses of different
treatments may be needed. A stomach biopsy will sometimes be done to test the
germ to see which antibiotic might work best. This can help guide future
treatment. In some cases, _H pylori_ can't be cured with any therapy, though
the symptoms may be able to be reduced.

If cured, reinfection may occur in areas where sanitary conditions are poor.

## Posssible Complications

A long-term (chronic) infection with _H pylori_ may lead to:

    * Peptic ulcer disease 
    * Chronic inflammation
    * Gastric and upper intestine ulcers
    * Stomach cancer
    * Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma

Complications may include:

    * Severe blood loss
    * Scarring from an ulcer may make it harder for the stomach to empty
    * Perforation or hole of the stomach and intestines

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Severe symptoms that begin suddenly may indicate a blockage in the intestine,
perforation, or hemorrhage, all of which are emergencies. Symptoms may
include:

    * Tarry, black, or bloody stools
    * Severe vomiting, which may include blood or a substance with the appearance of coffee grounds (a sign of a serious hemorrhage) or the entire stomach contents (a sign of intestinal obstruction)
    * Severe abdominal pain, with or without vomiting or evidence of blood

Anyone who has any of these symptoms should go to the emergency room right
away.

## Alternative Names

H pylori infection

## References

Morgan DR, Crowe SE. Helicobacter pylori infection. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

National Cancer Institute website. Helicobacter pylori and cancer.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/infectious-agents/h-pylori-
fact-sheet. Updated September 5, 2013. Accessed April 3, 2017.

Teitelbaum EN, Hungness ES, Mahvi DM. Stomach. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.Â _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery._ 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

## Review Date 10/12/2017

Updated by: Barry S. Zingman, MD, Medical Director, AIDS Center, and Clinical
Director, Infectious Diseases, Montefiore Medical Center; Professor of
Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Helicobacter Pylori
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HelicobacterPyloriInfections_thumb.jpg)Helicobacter
Pylori Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

