Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000615.htm    
                                Description: Tetanus is an infection of the nervous system with a type of bacteria that is potentially deadly, called Clostridium tetani (C tetani).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tetanus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000615.htm

# Tetanus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tetanus is an infection of the nervous system with a type of bacteria that is
potentially deadly, called _Clostridium tetani (C tetani)_.

## Causes

Spores of the bacteriumÂ _C tetani_ are found in the soil, and in animal feces
and mouth (gastrointestinal tract). In the spore form, _C tetani_ can remain
inactive in the soil. But it can remain infectious for more than 40 years.

You can get tetanus infection when the spores enter your body through an
injury or wound. The spores become active bacteria that spread in the body and
make a poison called tetanus toxin (also known as tetanospasmin). This poison
blocks nerve signals from your spinal cord to your muscles, causing severe
muscle spasms. The spasms can be so powerful that they tear the muscles or
cause fractures of the spine.

The time between infection and the first sign of symptoms is about 7 to 21
days. Most cases of tetanus in the United States occur in those who have not
been properly vaccinated against the disease.

## Symptoms

Tetanus often begins with mild spasms in the jaw muscles (lockjaw). The spasms
can also affect your chest, neck, back, and abdominal muscles. Back muscle
spasms often cause arching, called opisthotonos.

Sometimes, the spasms affect muscles that help with breathing, which can lead
to breathing problems.

Prolonged muscular action causes sudden, powerful, and painful contractions of
muscle groups. This is called tetany. These are the episodes that can cause
fractures and muscle tears.

Other symptoms include:

    * Drooling
    * Excessive sweating
    * Fever
    * Hand or foot spasms
    * Irritability
    * Swallowing difficulty 
    * Uncontrolled urination or defecation 

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor will perform a physical exam and ask about your medical history.
No specific lab test is available to diagnose tetanus.

Tests may be used to rule out meningitis, rabies, strychnine poisoning, and
other diseases with similar symptoms.

## Treatment

Treatment may include:

    * Antibiotics
    * Bedrest with a calm environment (dim light, reduced noise, and stable temperature)
    * Medicine to reverse the poison (tetanus immune globulin)
    * Muscle relaxers, such as diazepam
    * Sedatives
    * Surgery to clean the wound and remove the source of the poison (debridement)

Breathing support with oxygen, a breathing tube, and a breathing machine may
be necessary.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, 1 out of 4 infected people die. The death rate for newborns
with untreated tetanus is even higher. With proper treatment, less than 15% of
infected people die.

Wounds on the head or face seem to be more dangerous than those on other parts
of the body. If the person survives the acute illness, recovery is generally
complete. Uncorrected episodes of hypoxia (lack of oxygen) caused by muscle
spasms in the throat may lead to irreversible brain damage.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from tetanus include:

    * Airway obstruction
    * Respiratory arrest
    * Heart failure
    * Pneumonia
    * Damage to muscles
    * Fractures 
    * Brain damage due to lack of oxygen during spasms

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if you have an open wound,
particularly if:

    * You are injured outdoors.
    * The wound has been in contact with soil.
    * You have not received a tetanus booster (vaccine) within 10 years or you are not sure of your vaccination status.

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have never been immunized
against tetanus as an adult or child. Also call if your children have not been
immunized, or if you are unsure of your tetanus immunization (vaccine) status.

## Prevention

IMMUNIZATION

Tetanus is completely preventable by being immunized (vaccinated).
Immunization usually protects against tetanus infection for 10 years.

In the United States, immunizations begin in infancy with the DTaP series of
shots. The DTaP vaccine is a 3-in-1 vaccine that protects against diphtheria,
pertussis, and tetanus.

Td vaccine or Tdap vaccine is used to maintain immunity in people age 7 and
older. Tdap vaccine should be given once, before age 65, as a substitute for
Td for those who have not had Tdap. Td boosters are recommended every 10 years
starting at age 19.

Older teenagers and adults who get injuries, especially puncture-type wounds,
should get a tetanus booster if it has been more than 10 years since the last
booster.

If you have been injured outside or in any way that makes contact with soil
likely, contact your provider about your risk of getting a tetanus infection.
Injuries and wounds should be thoroughly cleaned right away. If the tissue of
the wound is dying, a doctor will need to remove the tissue.

You may have heard that you can get tetanus if you are injured by a rusty
nail. This is true only if the nail is dirty and has the tetanus bacteria on
it. It is the dirt on the nail, not the rust that carries the risk for
tetanus.

## Alternative Names

Lockjaw; Trismus

## References

Hodowanec A, Bleck TP. Tetanus ( _Clostridium tetani_ ). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 246.

Simon BC, Hern HG. Wound management principles. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tetanus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tetanus_thumb.jpg)Tetanus _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

