Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000303.htm    
                                Description: Cholera is a bacterial infection of the small intestine that causes a large amount of watery diarrhea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholera

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000303.htm

# Cholera

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholera is a bacterial infection of the small intestine that causes a large
amount of watery diarrhea.

## Causes

Cholera is caused by the bacteria _Vibrio cholerae_. These bacteria release a
toxin that causes an increased amount of water to be released from cells that
line the intestines. This increase in water produces severe diarrhea.

People develop the infection from eating or drinking food or water that
contains the cholera germ. Living in or traveling to areas where cholera is
present raises the risk of getting it.

Cholera occurs in places with a lack of water treatment or sewage treatment,
or crowding, war, and famine. Common locations for cholera include:

    * Africa
    * Some parts of Asia
    * India
    * Bangladesh
    * Mexico
    * South and Central America 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cholera can be mild to severe. They include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Dry mucous membranes orÂ dry mouth
    * Dry skin
    * Excessive thirst
    * Glassy or sunken eyes
    * Lack of tears
    * Lethargy
    * Low urine output
    * Nausea
    * Rapid dehydration
    * Rapid pulse (heart rate)
    * Sunken "soft spots" (fontanelles) in infants
    * Unusual sleepiness or tiredness
    * Vomiting
    * Watery diarrhea that starts suddenly and has a "fishy" odor

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Stool culture and Gram stain 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to replace fluid and salts that are lost through
diarrhea. Diarrhea and fluid loss can be fast and extreme. It can be hard to
replace lost fluids.

Depending on your condition, you may be given fluids by mouth or through a
vein (intravenous, or IV). Antibiotics may shorten the time you feel ill.

The World Health Organization (WHO) has developed packets of salts that are
mixed with clean water to help restore fluids. These are cheaper and easier to
use than the typical IV fluid. These packets are now being used around the
world.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Severe dehydration can cause death. Most people will make a full recovery when
they are given enough fluids.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Severe dehydration
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop severe watery diarrhea. Also
call if you have signs of dehydration, including:

    * Dry mouth
    * Dry skin
    * "Glassy" eyes
    * No tears
    * Rapid pulse
    * Reduced or no urine
    * Sunken eyes
    * Thirst
    * Unusual sleepiness or tiredness 

## Prevention

The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does not
recommend cholera vaccines for most travelers. (This vaccine is not available
in the United States.)

Travelers should always be careful when eating food and drinking water, even
if they are vaccinated.

When outbreaks of cholera occur, efforts should be made to establish clean
water, food, and sanitation. Vaccination is not very effective in managing
outbreaks.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

United Nations World Health Organization website. WHO position paper on oral
rehydration salts to reduce mortality from cholera.
www.who.int/cholera/technical/en. Accessed April 24, 2018.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cholera](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholera2_thumb.jpg)Cholera _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

