Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000510.htm    
                                Description: Shiga-like toxin producing E coli hemolytic-uremic syndrome (STEC-HUS) is a disorder that most often occurs when an infection in the digestive system produces toxic substances. These substances destroy    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemolytic-uremic syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000510.htm

# Hemolytic-uremic syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shiga-like toxin producing _E coli_ hemolytic-uremic syndrome (STEC-HUS) is a
disorder that most often occurs when an infection in the digestive system
produces toxic substances. These substances destroy red blood cells and cause
kidney injury.

## Causes

Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) often occurs after a gastrointestinal
infection with _E coli_ bacteria ( _Escherichia coli_ O157:H7). However, the
condition has also been linked to other gastrointestinal infections, including
shigella and salmonella. It has also been linked to nongastrointestinal
infections.

HUS is most common in children. It is the most common cause of acute kidney
failure in children. Several large outbreaks have been linked to undercooked
hamburger meat contaminated with _E coli_.

 _E coli_ can be transmitted through:

    * Contact from one person to another
    * Consuming uncooked food, such as milk products or beef

STEC-HUS is not to be confused with atypical HUS (aHUS) which is not
infection-related. It is similar to another disease called thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP).

## Symptoms

STEC-HUS often begins with vomiting and diarrhea, which may be bloody. Within
a week, the person may become weak and irritable. People with this condition
may urinate less than normal. Urine output may almost stop.

Red blood cell destruction leads to symptoms of anemia.

Early symptoms:

    * Blood in the stools
    * Irritability
    * Fever
    * Lethargy
    * Vomiting and diarrhea
    * Weakness

Later symptoms:

    * Bruising
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Low urine output
    * No urine output
    * Pallor
    * Seizures \-- rare
    * Skin rash that looks like fine red spots (petechiae)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

    * Liver or spleen swelling
    * Nervous system changes 

Laboratory tests will show signs of hemolytic anemia and acute renal failure.
Tests may include:

    * Blood clotting tests (PT and PTT)
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel may show increased levels of BUN and creatinine
    * Complete blood count (CBC) may show increased white blood cell count and decreased red blood cell count
    * Platelet count is usually reduced
    * Urinalysis may reveal blood and protein in the urine
    * Urine protein test can show the amount of protein in the urine 

Other tests:

    * Stool culture may be positive for a certain type of _E coli_ bacteria or other bacteria 
    * Colonoscopy
    * Kidney biopsy (in rare cases)

## Treatment

Treatment may involve:

    * Dialysis
    * Medicines, such as corticosteroids
    * Management of fluids and electrolytes
    * Transfusions of packed red blood cells and platelets

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This is a serious illness in both children and adults, and it can cause death.
With proper treatment, more than half of people will recover. The outcome is
better in children than adults.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blood clotting problems
    * Hemolytic anemia
    * Kidney failure
    * Hypertension leading to seizures, irritability, and other nervous system problems
    * Too few platelets (thrombocytopenia)
    * Uremia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of HUS. Emergency symptoms include:

    * Blood in the stool
    * No urination
    * Reduced alertness (consciousness) 

Call your provider if you have had an episode of HUS and your urine output
decreases, or you develop other new symptoms.

## Prevention

You can prevent the known cause, _E coli_ , by cooking hamburger and other
meats well. You should also avoid contact with unclean waterÂ and follow
proper hand washing methods.

## Alternative Names

HUS; STEC-HUS

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Crowther MA, Iqbal A. Hematologic manifestations of renal disease. In: Hoffman
R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 154.

Schneidewend R, Epperia N, Friedman KD. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
and the hemolytic uremic syndromes. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE,
eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 134.

Van Why SK, Avner ED. Hemolytic-uremic syndrome. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 518.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![E. Coli
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EColiInfections_thumb.jpg)E. Coli
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

