Link: https://medlineplus.gov/childhoodimmunization.html    
                                Description: Childhood immunization involve vaccines that protect children from more than a dozen diseases. Learn more on how to protect your child.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Childhood Immunization

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/childhoodimmunization.html

#  Childhood Immunization

Also called: Shots

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Today, children in the United States routinely get vaccines that protect them
from more than a dozen diseases such as measles, polio, tetanus, diphtheria,
and pertussis (whooping cough). Most of these diseases are now at their lowest
levels in history, thanks to years of immunization. Children must get at least
some vaccines before they may attend school.

Vaccines help make you immune to serious diseases without getting sick first.
Without a vaccine, you must actually get a disease in order to become immune
to the germ that causes it. Vaccines work best when they are given at certain
ages. For example, children don't receive measles vaccine until they are at
least one year old. If it is given earlier it might not work as well. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention publishes a schedule for childhood
vaccines.

Although some of the vaccines you receive as a child provide protection for
many years, adults need immunizations too.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * 2019 Recommended Vaccinations for Children (7-18 Years Old) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * 2019 Recommended Vaccinations for Infants and Children (birth through 6 years) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Childhood Vaccine Assessment Tool (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Childhood Vaccines: What They Are and Why Your Child Needs Them (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * For Parents: Vaccines for Your Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Frequently Asked Questions about Immunizations (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Immunization Schedule (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Recommended Immunizations for Children from 7 Through 18 Years Old (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Vaccine Basics (Department of Health and Human Services)
    * Vaccines for Your Children: Protect Your Child at Every Age (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Vaccines.gov (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * After the Shots... What to Do If Your Child Has Discomfort (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Community Immunity: How Vaccines Protect Us All ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Do Vaccines Cause Autism? Is it OK to Skip Certain Vaccines? Get the facts (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Frequently Asked Questions about Thimerosal (Ethylmercury) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Ingredients of Vaccines (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Is There a Connection Between Vaccines and Autism? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Possible Side-Effects from Vaccines (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Questions Parents Ask about Vaccinations for Baby (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF
    * Records and Requirements (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * School Starts Soon - Is Your Child Fully Vaccinated? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Vaccine Recommendations for Infants and Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Vaccinating Your Preteen: Addressing Common Concerns (American Academy of Pediatrics)
    * Vaccine Safety (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * What Would Happen If We Stopped Vaccinations? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Immunizations for Preterm Babies (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Your Baby's First Vaccines (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Images

    * Vaccine-Preventable Disease Photos (Immunization Action Coalition)

## Health Check Tools

    * Childhood Vaccine Assessment Tool (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Immunization (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Safeguarding Our Health: Vaccines Protect Us All ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * VaxView: Vaccination Coverage [data] in the U.S. (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Childhood Immunization ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Recommended Immunization Schedule for Children and...
    * Article: First statewide meningococcal B vaccine program in infants, children and adolescents:...
    * Article: Routine Childhood Vaccines Given in the First 11 Months of Life.
    * Childhood Immunization -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Glossary of Vaccine Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Overview of the Immune System ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Kids Guide to Shots (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Vaccination: An Act of Love (Pan American Health Organization) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Immunizations (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Vaccinations for Preteens and Teens, Age 11-19 Years (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Recommended Immunizations for Children from 7 Through 18 Years Old (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Your Baby's First Vaccines: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Childhood
Immunization](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodImmunization.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Immunizations - general overview

## Related Health Topics

    * Chickenpox
    * Diphtheria
    * Flu Shot
    * Haemophilus Infections
    * Hepatitis B
    * Immunization
    * Measles
    * Mumps
    * Polio and Post-Polio Syndrome
    * Tetanus
    * Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines
    * Whooping Cough

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Childhood
Immunization_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * What Is Community Immunity?

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 19 October 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

