Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000296.htm    
                                Description: E coli enteritis is swelling (inflammation) of the small intestine from Escherichia coli (E coli) bacteria. It is the most common cause of travelers    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

E coli enteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000296.htm

# E coli enteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

_E coli_ enteritis is swelling (inflammation) of the small intestine from
_Escherichia coli_ ( _E coli_ ) bacteria. It is the most common cause of
travelers' diarrhea.

## Causes

_E coli_ is a type of bacteria that lives in the intestines of humans and
animals. Most of the time, it does not cause any problems. However, certain
types (or strains) of _E coli_ can cause food poisoning. One strain ( _E coli_
O157:H7) can cause a severe case of food poisoning.

Bacteria may get into your food in different ways:

    * Meat or poultry may come into contact with normal bacteria from the intestines of an animal while it is being processed.
    * Water used during growing or shipping may contain animal or human waste.
    * Food may be handled in an unsafe way during transport or storage.
    * Unsafe food handling or preparation may occur in grocery stores, restaurants, or homes. 

Food poisoning can occur after eating or drinking:

    * Food prepared by a person who did not wash hands well
    * Food prepared using unclean cooking utensils, cutting boards, or other tools
    * Dairy products or food containing mayonnaise (such as coleslaw or potato salad) that have been out of the refrigerator too long
    * Frozen or refrigerated foods that are not stored at the proper temperature or are not properly reheated
    * Fish or oysters
    * Raw fruits or vegetables that have not been washed well
    * Raw vegetable or fruit juices and dairy products
    * Undercooked meats or eggs
    * Water from a well or stream, or city or town water that has not been treated 

Although not common, _E coli_ can be spread from one person to another. This
may happen when someone does not wash their hands after a bowel movement and
then touches other objects or someone else's hands.

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur when _E coli_ bacteria enter the intestine. Most of the time
symptoms develop 24 to 72 hours after being infected. The most common symptom
is sudden, severe diarrhea that is often bloody.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fever
    * Gas
    * Loss of appetite
    * Stomach cramping
    * Vomiting (rare) 

Symptoms of a rare but severe _E coli_ infection include:

    * Bruises that happen easily
    * Pale skin
    * Red or bloody urine
    * Reduced amount of urine  

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. A stool culture can be
done to check for disease-causing _E coli_.

## Treatment

Most of the time, you will recover from the most common types of _E coli_
infection within a couple of days. The goal of treatment is to make you feel
better and avoid dehydration. Getting enough fluids and learning what to eat
will help keep you or your child comfortable.

You may need to:

    * Manage the diarrhea
    * Control nausea and vomiting
    * Get plenty of rest 

You can drink oral rehydration mixtures to replace fluids and minerals lost
through vomiting and diarrhea. Oral rehydration powder can be purchased from a
pharmacy. Be sure to mix the powder in safe water.

You can make your own rehydration mixture by dissolving one halfÂ teaspoon (3
grams) of salt, one halfÂ teaspoon (2.5 grams) of baking soda and 4
tablespoons (50 grams) of sugar in 4Â¼ cups (1 liter) of water.

You may need to get fluids through a vein (IV) if you have diarrhea or
vomiting and cannot drink or keep enough fluids in your body. You will need to
go to your provider's office or the emergency room.

If you take diuretics (water pills), talk to your provider. You may need to
stop taking the diuretic while you have diarrhea. Never stop or change
medicines without first talking to your provider. You can buy medicines at the
drugstore that can help stop or slow diarrhea. Do not use these medicines
without talking to your provider if you have bloody diarrhea or a fever. Do
not give these medicines to children.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people will get better in a few days, without treatment. Some uncommon
types of _E coli_ can cause severe anemia or kidney failure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You are unable to keep down fluids.
    * Your diarrhea does not get better in 5 days (2 days for an infant or child), or it gets worse.
    * Your child has been vomiting for more than 12 hours (in a newborn under 3 months, call as soon as vomiting or diarrhea begins).
    * You have abdominal pain that does not go away after a bowel movement.
    * You have a fever above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or your child has a fever above 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) with diarrhea.
    * You have recently traveled to a foreign country and developed diarrhea.
    * You see blood or pus in your stool.
    * You develop symptoms of dehydration, such as not peeing (or dry diapers in a baby), thirst, dizziness, or lightheadedness.
    * You develop new symptoms. 

## Alternative Names

Traveler's diarrhea - E. coli; Food poisoning - E. coli; E. coli diarrhea;
Hamburger disease

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
    * ![Proper hand washing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22874t.jpg)Proper hand washing

## References

Mody RK, Griffin PM. Foodborne disease. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 103.

Nguyen T, Akhtar S. Gastroenteritis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 84.

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![E. Coli
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EColiInfections_thumb.jpg)E. Coli
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

