Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003547.htm    
                                Description: Coccidioides complement fixation is a blood test that looks for substances (proteins) called antibodies,Â which are produced by the body in reaction to the fungus Coccidioides immitis. This fungus causes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coccidioides complement fixation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003547.htm

# Coccidioides complement fixation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coccidioides complement fixation is a blood test that looks for substances
(proteins) called antibodies,Â which are produced by the body in reaction to
the fungus _Coccidioides immitis._ This fungus causes the disease
coccidioidomycosis.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain,
while others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to detect infection with the fungus that causes
coccidioidomycosis, or valley fever.Â This condition can cause lung or
widespread (disseminated) infection.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no _Coccidioides immitis_ antibodies are detected in the
blood sample.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean that _Coccidioides immitis_ antibodies are present. This
can mean that you have a current or past infection.

The test may be repeated after several weeks to detect a rise in titer
(antibody concentration), which confirms an active infection.

In general, the worse the infection, the higher is the titer, except in people
with a weakened immune system.

There can be false positive tests in people with other fungal diseases such as
histoplasmosis and blastomycosis, and false negative tests in people with
single lung masses from coccidioidomycosis.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Coccidioides antibody test; Coccidioidomycosis blood testÂ

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Galgiani JN. Coccidioidomycosis ( _Coccidioides_ species). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 265.

Iwen PC. Mycotic diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Valley Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ValleyFever_thumb.jpg)Valley
Fever _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

