Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003526.htm    
                                Description: CSF coccidioides complement fixation is a test that checks for infection due to the fungus coccidioides in the cerebrospinal (CSF) fluid. This is the fluid surrounding the brain and spine. The name of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF coccidioides complement fixation test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003526.htm

# CSF coccidioides complement fixation test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CSF coccidioides complement fixation is a test that checks for infection due
to the fungus coccidioides in the cerebrospinal (CSF) fluid. This is the fluid
surrounding the brain and spine. The name of this infection is
coccidioidomycosis, or valley fever. When the infection involves the covering
of the brain and spinal cord (the meninges), it is called coccidioidal
meningitis.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of spinal fluid is needed for this test. The sample is usually
obtained by lumbar puncture (spinal tap).

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There, it is examined for coccidioides
antibodies using a laboratory method called complement fixation. This
technique checks if your body has produced substances called antibodies to a
specific foreign substance (antigen), in this case coccidioides.

Antibodies are specialized proteins that defend your body against bacteria,
viruses, and fungi. If the antibodies are present, they stick, or "fix"
themselves, to the antigen. This is why the test is called "fixation."

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to prepare for the
test. Expect to be in the hospital for several hours afterward.

## How the Test will Feel

During the test:

    * You lie on your side with knees pulled up toward your chest and chin tucked downward. Or, you sit up, but bent forward.
    * After your back is cleaned, the doctor injects a local numbing medicine (anesthetic) into your lower spine.
    * A spinal needle is inserted, usually into the lower back area.
    * Once the needle is properly positioned, CSF pressure is measured and a sample is collected.
    * The needle is removed, the area is cleaned, and a bandage is placed over the needle site.
    * You are taken to a recovery area where you rest for several hours to prevent any CSF leakage.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test checks if your central nervous system has an active infection from
coccidioides.

## Normal Results

The absence of fungus (a negative test) is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the test is positive for fungus, there may be an active infection in the
central nervous system.

An abnormal spinal fluid test means that the central nervous system is
infected. During the early stage of an illness, few antibodies may be
detected. Antibody production increases during the course of an infection. For
this reason, this test may be repeated several weeks after the first test.

## Risks

Risks of lumbar puncture include:

    * Bleeding into the spinal canal
    * Discomfort during the test
    * Headache after the test
    * Hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction to the anesthetic
    * Infection introduced by the needle going through the skin
    * Damage to the nerves in the spinal cord, especially if the person moves during the test  

## Alternative Names

Coccidioides antibody test - spinal fluid

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. _Coccidioides_ serology - blood or CSF. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:353.

Galgiani JN. Coccidioidomycosis ( _Coccidioides_ species). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 267.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Valley Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ValleyFever_thumb.jpg)Valley
Fever _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

