Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001322.htm    
                                Description: Valley fever is an infection that occurs when the spores of the fungus Coccidioides immitis enter your body through the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Valley fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001322.htm

# Valley fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Valley fever is an infection that occurs when the spores of the fungus
_Coccidioides immitis_ enter your body through the lungs.

## Causes

Valley fever is a fungal infection most commonly seen in the desert regions of
the southwestern United States, and in Central and South America. You get it
by breathing in the fungus from soil. The infection starts in the lungs. It
commonly affects people over 60 years of age.

Valley fever may also be called coccidioidomycosis.

Traveling to an area where the fungus is commonly seen raises your risk for
this infection. However, you're more likely to develop a serious infection if
you live where the fungus is found and have a weakened immune system due to:

    * Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy
    * Cancer
    * Chemotherapy
    * Glucocorticoid medicines (prednisone)
    * Heart-lung conditions
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Organ transplant
    * Pregnancy (especially the first trimester)

People of Native American, African, or Philippine descent may also come down
with more severe cases.

## Symptoms

Most people with valley fever never have symptoms. Others may have cold- or
flu-like symptoms or symptoms of pneumonia. If symptoms occur, they typically
start 5 to 21 days after exposure to the fungus.

Common symptoms include:

    * Ankle, feet, and leg swelling
    * Chest pain (can vary from mild to severe)
    * Cough, possibly producing blood-tinged phlegm (sputum)
    * Fever and night sweats
    * Headache
    * Joint stiffness and pain or muscle aches 
    * Loss of appetite
    * Painful, red lumps on lower legs (erythema nodosum) 

Rarely, the infection spreads from the lungs through the bloodstream to
involve the skin, bones, joints, lymph nodes, and central nervous system or
other organs. This spread is called disseminated coccidioidomycosis.

People with this more widespread form may become very sick. Symptoms may also
include:

    * Change in mental status
    * Enlarged or draining lymph nodes
    * Joint swelling 
    * More severe lung symptoms
    * Neck stiffness
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Weight loss

Skin lesions of valley fever are often a sign of widespread (disseminated)
disease. With more widespread infection, skin sores or lesions are most often
seen on the face.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms
and travel history. Tests done for milder forms of this infection include:

    * Blood test to check for coccidioides infection (the fungus that causes Valley fever)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Sputum culture
    * Sputum smear (KOH test)

Tests done for more severe or widespread forms of the infection include:

    * Biopsy of the lymph node, lung, or liver
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Bronchoscopy with lavage
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) to rule out meningitis

## Treatment

If you have a healthy immune system, the disease almost always goes away
without treatment. Your provider may suggest bed rest and treatment for flu-
like symptoms until your fever disappears.

If you have a weak immune system, you may need antifungal treatment with
amphotericin B, fluconazole, or itraconazole. Itraconazole is the drug of
choice in people with joint or muscle pain.

Sometimes surgery is needed to remove the infected part of the lung (for
chronic or severe disease).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the form of the disease you have and your overall
health.

The outcome in acute disease is likely to be good. With treatment, the outcome
is usually also good for chronic or severe disease (although relapses may
occur). People with disease that has spread have a high death rate.

## Possible Complications

Widespread valley fever may cause:

    * Collections of pus in the lung (lung abscess)
    * Scarring of the lung

These problems are much more likely if you have a weakened immune system.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of valley
fever or if your condition does not improve with treatment.

## Prevention

People with immune problems (such as with HIV/AIDS and those who are on drugs
that suppress the immune system) shouldn't go to areas where this fungus is
found. If you already live in these areas, other measures that can be taken
include:

    * Closing windows during dust storms
    * Avoiding activities that involve handling soil, such as gardening

Take preventive medicines as prescribed by your provider.

## Alternative Names

San Joaquin Valley fever; Coccidioidomycosis, Cocci; Desert rheumatism

## Images

    * ![Coccidioidomycosis - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1600t.jpg)Coccidioidomycosis - chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1610t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray
    * ![Disseminated coccidioidomycosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17157t.jpg)Disseminated coccidioidomycosis

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Valley fever
(coccidioidomycosis).
www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/index.html. Updated January 30,
2017. Accessed October 8, 2018.

Elewski BE, Hughey LC, Hunt KM, Hay RJ. Fungal diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 77.

Galgiani JN. Coccidioidomycosis (Coccidioides species). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 267.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Valley Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ValleyFever_thumb.jpg)Valley
Fever _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

