Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000605.htm    
                                Description: Epiglottitis is inflammation of the epiglottis. This is the tissue that covers the trachea (windpipe). Epiglottitis can be a life-threatening disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epiglottitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000605.htm

# Epiglottitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Epiglottitis is inflammation of the epiglottis. This is the tissue that covers
the trachea (windpipe). Epiglottitis can be a life-threatening disease.

## Causes

The epiglottis is a stiff, yet flexible tissue (called cartilage) at the back
of the tongue. It closes your windpipe (trachea) when you swallow so food does
not enter your airway. This helps prevent coughing or choking after
swallowing.

In children, epiglottitis is usually caused by the bacteria _Haemophilus
influenzae_ ( _H. influenzae_ ) type B. In adults, it is often due to other
bacteria such as _Strepcoccus pneumoniae_ , or viruses such as herpes simplex
virus and varicella-zoster.

Epiglottitis is now very uncommon because the H. influenzae type B (Hib)
vaccine is given routinely to all children. The disease was once most often
seen in children ages 2 through 6. In rare cases, epiglottitis can occur in
adults.

## Symptoms

Epiglottitis begins with a high fever and sore throat. Other symptoms may
include:

    * Abnormal breathing sounds (stridor)
    * Fever
    * Blue skin color (cyanosis)
    * Drooling
    * Difficulty breathing (the person may need to sit upright and lean slightly forward to breathe)
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Voice changes (hoarseness) 

The airways can become totally blocked, which can result in cardiac arrest and
death.

## Exams and Tests

Epiglottitis can be a medical emergency. Seek medical help right away. Do not
use anything to press the tongue down to try to look at the throat at home.
Doing so may make the condition worse.

The health care provider may examine the voice box (larynx) using a small
mirror held against the back of the throat. Or a viewing tube called a
laryngoscope may be used. This examination is best done in the operating room
or a similar setting where sudden breathing problems can be more easily
handled.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture or throat culture
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Neck x-ray 

## Treatment

A hospital stay is needed, usually in the intensive care unit (ICU).

Treatment involves methods to help the person breathe, including:

    * Breathing tube (intubation)
    * Moistened (humidified) oxygen

Other treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics to treat the infection
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines, called corticosteroids, to decrease throat swelling
    * Fluids given through a vein (by IV)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Epiglottitis can be a life-threatening emergency. With proper treatment, the
outcome is usually good.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Spasm may cause the airways to close suddenly. Or, the airways may become
totally blocked. Either of these situations could result in death.

## Prevention

The Hib vaccine protects most children from epiglottitis.

The most common bacteria ( _H. influenza_ type b _)_ that causes epiglottitis
is easily spread. If someone in your family is sick from this bacteria, other
family members need to be tested and treated.

## Alternative Names

Supraglottitis

## Images

    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1052t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism
    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2930t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism

## References

Nayak JL, Weinberg GA. Epiglottitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 64.

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

## Review Date 3/15/2018

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Haemophilus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HaemophilusInfections_thumb.jpg)Haemophilus
Infections _Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

