Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000612.htm    
                                Description: Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. This covering is called the meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

H influenzae meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000612.htm

# H influenzae meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal
cord. This covering is called the meninges.

Bacteria are one type of germ that can cause meningitis. _Haemophilus
influenzae_ type b is one kind of bacteria that causes meningitis.

## Causes

_H influenzae_ meningitis is caused by _Haemophilus influenzae_ type b
bacteria. This illness is not the same as the flu (influenza), which is caused
by a virus.

Before the Hib vaccine, _H influenzae_ was the leading cause of bacterial
meningitis in children under age 5. Since the vaccine became available in the
United States, this type of meningitis occurs much less often in children.

_H influenzae_ meningitis may occur after an upper respiratory infection. The
infection usually spreads from the lungs and airways to the blood, then the
brain area.

Risk factors include:

    * Attending day care
    * Cancer
    * Ear infection (otitis media) with _H influenzae_ infection
    * Family member with an _H influenzae_ infection
    * Native American race
    * Pregnancy
    * Older age
    * Sinus infection (sinusitis)
    * Sore throat (pharyngitis)
    * Upper respiratory infection
    * Weakened immune system 

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually come on quickly, and may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Mental status changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Severe headache 
    * Stiff neck (meningismus) 

Other symptoms that can occur include:

    * Agitation
    * Bulging fontanelles in infants
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Poor feeding and irritability in children
    * Rapid breathing
    * Unusual posture, with the head and neck arched backwards (opisthotonos)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Questions will focus on
symptoms and possible exposure to someone who might have the same symptoms,
such as a stiff neck and fever.

If the doctor thinks meningitis is possible, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) is
done to take a sample of spinal fluid (cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF) for
testing.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head
    * Gram stain, other special stains, and culture of CSF

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be given as soon as possible. Ceftriaxone is one of the most
commonly used antibiotics. Ampicillin may sometimes be used.

Corticosteroids may be used to fight inflammation, especially in children.

Unvaccinated people who are in close contact with someone who has _H
influenzae_ meningitis should be given antibiotics to prevent infection. Such
people include:

    * Household members
    * Roommates in dormitories
    * Those who come into close contact with an infected person

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Meningitis is a dangerous infection and it can be deadly. The sooner it is
treated, the better the chance for recovery. Young children and adults over
age 50 have the highest risk for death.

## Possible Complications

Long-term complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Buildup of fluid between the skull and brain (subdural effusion)
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus) 
    * Hearing loss 
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you suspect meningitis in a young child who has the following symptoms:

    * Feeding problems
    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * Persistent, unexplained fever

Call the local emergency number if you develop any of the serious symptoms
listed above. Meningitis can quickly become a life-threatening illness.

## Prevention

Infants and young children can be protected with the Hib vaccine.

Close contacts in the same household, school, or day care center should be
watched for early signs of the disease as soon as the first person is
diagnosed. All unvaccinated family members and close contacts of this person
should begin antibiotic treatment as soon as possible to prevent spread of the
infection. Ask your provider about antibiotics during the first visit.

Always use good hygiene habits, such as washing hands before and after
changing a diaper, and after using the bathroom.

## Alternative Names

H. influenzae meningitis; H. flu meningitis; Haemophilus influenzae type b
meningitis

## Images

    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1052t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![CSF cell count](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9238t.jpg)CSF cell count

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Bacterial meningitis.
www.cdc.gov/meningitis/bacterial.html. Updated January 25, 2017. Accessed
October 8, 2018.

Nath A. Meningitis: bacterial, viral, and other. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 412.

Tunkel AR, Van de Beek D, Scheld WM. Acute meningitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Haemophilus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HaemophilusInfections_thumb.jpg)Haemophilus
Infections _Read more_

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

