Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001402.htm    
                                Description: Polio is a viral disease that can affect nerves and can lead to partial or full paralysis. The medical name for polio is poliomyelitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polio

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001402.htm

# Polio

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polio is a viral disease that can affect nerves and can lead to partial or
full paralysis. The medical name for polio is poliomyelitis.

## Causes

Polio is a disease caused by infection with the poliovirus. The virus spreads
by:

    * Direct person-to-person contact 
    * Contact with infected mucus or phlegm from the nose or mouth 
    * Contact with infected feces 

The virus enters through the mouth and nose, multiplies in the throat and
intestinal tract, and then is absorbed and spread through the blood and lymph
system. The time from being infected with the virus to developing symptoms of
disease (incubation) ranges from 5 to 35 days (average 7 to 14 days). Most
people do not develop symptoms.

Risks factors include:

    * Lack of immunization against polio
    * Travel to an area that has had a polio outbreak 

As a result of a global vaccination campaign over the past 25 years, polio has
largely been eliminated. The disease still exists in some countries in Africa
and Asia, with outbreaks occurring in groups of people who have not been
vaccinated. For an updated list of these countries, visit the website:
www.polioeradication.org.

## Symptoms

There are four basic patterns of polio infection: inapparent infection,
abortive disease, nonparalytic, and paralytic.

INAPPARENT INFECTION

Most people infected with poliovirus have inapparent infections. They usually
do not have symptoms. The only way to know if someone has the infection is by
performing a blood test or other tests to find the virus in the stool or
throat.

ABORTIVE DISEASE

People who have abortive disease develop symptoms about 1 to 2 weeks after
getting infected with the virus. Symptoms may include:

    * Fever for 2 to 3 days
    * General discomfort or uneasiness (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Sore throat
    * Vomiting
    * Loss of appetite
    * Belly pain 

These symptoms last up to 5 days and people recover completely. They have no
signs of nervous system problems.

NONPARALYTIC POLIO

People who develop this form of polio have signs of abortive polio and their
symptoms are more intense. Other symptoms may include:

    * Stiff and sore muscles at the back of the neck, trunk, arms, and legs
    * Urinary problems and constipation
    * Changes in muscle reaction (reflexes) as the disease progresses 

PARALYTIC POLIO

This form of polio develops in a small percentage of people who are infected
with the polio virus. Symptoms include those of abortive and nonparalytic
polio. Other symptoms may include:

    * Muscle weakness, paralysis, loss of muscle tissue
    * Breathing that is weak
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Drooling
    * Hoarse voice
    * Severe constipation and urinary problems 

## Exams and Tests

During a physical examination, the health care provider may find:

    * Abnormal reflexes
    * Back stiffness
    * Difficulty lifting the head or legs when lying flat on the back
    * Stiff neck
    * Trouble bending the neck

Tests that may be done include:

    * Cultures of throat washings, stools, or spinal fluid
    * Spinal tap and examination of the spinal fluid (CSF examination) using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
    * Test for levels of antibodies to the polio virus

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control symptoms while the infection runs its
course. There is no specific treatment for this viral infection.

People with severe cases may need lifesaving measures, such as help with
breathing.

Symptoms are treated based on how severe they are. Treatment may include:

    * Antibiotics for urinary tract infections
    * Moist heat (heating pads, warm towels) to reduce muscle pain and spasms
    * Painkillers to reduce headache, muscle pain, and spasms (narcotics are not usually given because they increase the risk of breathing trouble)
    * Physical therapy, braces or corrective shoes, or orthopedic surgery to help recover muscle strength and function 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the form of the disease and the body area affected.
Most of the time, complete recovery is likely if the spinal cord and brain are
not involved.

Brain or spinal cord involvement is a medical emergency that may result in
paralysis or death (usually from respiratory problems).

Disability is more common than death. Infection that is located high in the
spinal cord or in the brain increases the risk of breathing problems.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from polio include:

    * Aspiration pneumonia
    * Cor pulmonale (a form of heart failure found on the right side of the circulation system)
    * Lack of movement
    * Lung problems
    * MyocarditisÂ (inflammation of the heart muscle)
    * Paralytic ileus (loss of intestinal function)
    * Permanent muscle paralysis, disability, deformity
    * Pulmonary edemaÂ (abnormal buildup of fluid in the lungs)
    * Shock
    * Urinary tract infections

Post-polio syndrome is a complication that develops in some people, usually 30
or more years after they are first infected. Muscles that were already weak
may get weaker. Weakness may also develop in muscles that were not affected
before.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Someone close to you has developed poliomyelitis and you haven't been vaccinated.
    * You develop symptoms of poliomyelitis.
    * Your child's polio immunization (vaccine) is not up to date.

## Prevention

Polio immunization (vaccine) effectively prevents poliomyelitis in most people
(immunization is over 90% effective).

## Alternative Names

Poliomyelitis; Infantile paralysis; Post-polio syndrome

## Images

    * ![Poliomyelitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17274t.jpg)Poliomyelitis

## References

Jorgensen S, Arnold WD. Motor neuron diseases. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 40.

Romero JR. Poliovirus. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 171.

SimÃµes EAF. Polioviruses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 276.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Polio y sÃ­ndrome de post-
polio](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Polio_thumb.jpg)Polio and Post-Polio
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

