Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001608.htm    
                                Description: Diphtheria is an acute infection caused by the bacteria Corynebacterium diphtheriae.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diphtheria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001608.htm

# Diphtheria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diphtheria is an acute infection caused by the bacteria _Corynebacterium
diphtheriae_.

## Causes

The bacteria that cause diphtheria spread through respiratory droplets (such
as from a cough or sneeze) of an infected person or someone who carries the
bacteria but has no symptoms.

The bacteria most commonly infect your nose and throat. The throat infection
causes a gray to black, tough, fiber-like covering, which can block your
airways. In some cases, diphtheria infects your skin first and causes skin
lesions.

Once you are infected, the bacteria make dangerous substances called toxins.
The toxins spread through your bloodstream to other organs, such as the heart
and brain, and cause damage.

Because of widespread vaccination (immunization) of children, diphtheria is
now rare in many parts of the world.

Risk factors for diphtheria include crowded environments, poor hygiene, and
lack of immunization.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually occur 1 to 7 days after the bacteria enter your body:

    * Fever and chills
    * Sore throat, hoarseness
    * Painful swallowing
    * Croup-like (barking) cough
    * Drooling (suggests airway blockage is about to occur)
    * Bluish coloration of the skin
    * Bloody, watery drainage from nose
    * Breathing problems, including difficulty breathing, fast breathing, high-pitched breathing sound (stridor)
    * Skin sores (usually seen in tropical areas) 

Sometimes there are no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and look inside your
mouth. This may reveal a gray to black covering (pseudomembrane) in the
throat, enlarged lymph glands, and swelling of the neck or vocal cords.

Tests used may include:

    * Gram stain or throat culture to identify the diphtheria bacteria
    * Toxin assay (to detect the presence of the toxin made by the bacteria)
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) 

## Treatment

If the provider thinks you have diphtheria, treatment will likely be started
right away, even before test results come back.

Diphtheria antitoxin is given as a shot into a muscle or through an IV
(intravenous line). The infection is then treated with antibiotics, such as
penicillin and erythromycin.

You may need to stay in the hospital while getting the antitoxin. Other
treatments may include:

    * Fluids by IV
    * Oxygen
    * Bed rest
    * Heart monitoring
    * Insertion of a breathing tube
    * Correction of airway blockages

People without symptoms who carry diphtheria should be treated with
antibiotics.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Diphtheria may be mild or severe. Some people do not have symptoms. In others,
the disease can slowly get worse. Recovery from the illness is slow.

People may die, especially when the disease affects the heart.

## Possible Complications

The most common complication is inflammation of the heart muscle
(myocarditis). The nervous system is also frequently and severely affected,
which may result in temporary paralysis.

The diphtheria toxin can also damage the kidneys.

There can also be an allergic response to the antitoxin.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider right away if you have come in contact with a person who
has diphtheria.

Diphtheria is a rare disease. It is also a reportable disease, and any cases
are often publicized in the newspaper or on television. This helps you to know
if diphtheria is present in your area.

## Prevention

Routine childhood immunizations and adult boosters prevent the disease.

Anyone who has come into contact with an infected person should get an
immunization or booster shot against diphtheria, if they have not already
received it. Protection from the vaccine lasts only 10 years. So it is
important for adults to get a booster vaccine every 10 years. The booster is
called tetanus-diphtheria (Td). (The shot also has vaccine medicine for an
infection called tetanus.)

If you have been in close contact with a person who has diphtheria, contact
your provider right away. Ask whether you need antibiotics to prevent getting
diphtheria.

## Alternative Names

Respiratory diphtheria; Pharyngeal diphtheria; Diphtheric cardiomyopathy;
Diphtheric polyneuropathy

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Diphtheria.
www.cdc.gov/diphtheria. Updated January 15, 2016. Accessed February 15, 2018.

MacGregor RR. Corynebacterium diphtheriae (Diphtheria). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 206.

Stechenberg BW. Diphtheria. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach
WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 90.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiphtheriaNew_thumb.jpg)Diphtheria _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

