Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001365.htm    
                                Description: Yellow fever is a viral infection spread by mosquitoes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Yellow fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001365.htm

# Yellow fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Yellow fever is a viral infection spread by mosquitoes.

## Causes

Yellow fever is caused by a virus carried by mosquitoes. You can develop this
disease if you are bitten by a mosquito infected with this virus.

This disease is common in South America and in sub-Saharan Africa.

Anyone can get yellow fever, but older people have a higher risk of severe
infection.

If a person is bitten by an infected mosquito, symptoms usually develop 3 to 6
days later.

## Symptoms

Yellow fever has 3 stages:

    * Stage 1 (infection): Headache, muscle and joint aches, fever, flushing, loss of appetite, vomiting, and jaundice are common. Symptoms often go away briefly after about 3 to 4 days.
    * Stage 2 (remission): Fever and other symptoms go away. Most people will recover at this stage, but others may get worse within 24 hours.
    * Stage 3 (intoxication): Problems with many organs may occur, including the heart, liver, and kidney. Bleeding disorders, seizures, coma, and delirium may also occur. 

Symptoms may include:

    * Fever, headache, muscle aches
    * Nausea and vomiting, possibly vomiting blood
    * Red eyes, face, tongue
    * Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)
    * Decreased urination
    * Delirium
    * Irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias)
    * Bleeding (may progress to hemorrhage)
    * Seizures
    * Coma 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and order blood
tests. These blood tests may show liver and kidney failure and evidence of
shock.

It is important to tell your provider if you have traveled to areas where the
disease is known to thrive. Blood tests can confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for yellow fever. Treatment for symptoms can
include:

    * Blood products for severe bleeding
    * Dialysis for kidney failure
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous fluids)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Yellow fever can cause severe problems, including internal bleeding. Death is
possible.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Coma
    * Death
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
    * Kidney failure
    * Liver failure
    * Salivary gland infection (parotitis)
    * Secondary bacterial infections
    * Shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See a provider at least 10 to 14 days before traveling to an area where yellow
fever is common to find out whether you should be vaccinated against the
disease.

Tell your provider right away if you or your child develops fever, headache,
muscle aches, vomiting, or jaundice, especially if you have traveled to an
area where yellow fever is common.

## Prevention

There is an effective vaccine against yellow fever. Ask your provider at least
10 to 14 days before traveling if you should be vaccinated against yellow
fever. Some countries require proof of vaccination to gain entry.

If you will be traveling to an area where yellow fever is common:

    * Sleep in screened housing
    * Use mosquito repellents
    * Wear clothing that fully covers your body

## Alternative Names

Tropical hemorrhagic fever caused by yellow fever virus

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Yellow fever.
www.cdc.gov/yellowfever. Updated July 12, 2016. Accessed February 15, 2017.

Kivlehan SM, Villar J, Kanzaria HK. Mosquitoes and mosquito-borne diseases.
In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

Thomas SJ, Endy TP, Rothman AL, Barrett AD. Flaviviruses (dengue, yellow
fever, Japanese encephalitis, West Nile encephalitis, St. Louis encephalitis,
tick-borne encephalitis, Kyasanur Forest disease, Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever,
Zika). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 155.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ebola](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EbolaandHemorrhagicFevers_thumb.jpg)Hemorrhagic
Fevers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

