Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003514.htm    
                                Description: The toxoplasma blood test looks for antibodies in the blood to a parasite called Toxoplasma gondii.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toxoplasma blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003514.htm

# Toxoplasma blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The toxoplasma blood test looks for antibodies in the blood to a parasite
called _Toxoplasma gondii_.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people may feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done when the health care provider suspects that you have
toxoplasmosis. The infection is a danger to a developing baby if a pregnant
woman gets infected. It is also dangerous in people with HIV/AIDS.

In pregnant women, the test is done to:

    * Check if a woman has a current infection or had an infection in the past.
    * Check if the baby has the infection.

The presence of antibodies before pregnancy probably protects a developing
baby against toxoplasmosis at birth. But antibodies that develop during
pregnancy may mean the mother and baby are infected. This infection during
pregnancy increases the risk for miscarriage or birth defects.

This test may also be done if you have:

    * An unexplained lymph node swelling
    * An unexplained rise in the blood white cell (lymphocyte) count
    * HIV and have symptoms of a toxoplasmosis of the brain (including headache, seizures, weakness, and speech or vision problems)
    * Inflammation of the back part of the eye (chorioretinitis)

## Normal Results

Normal results mean you have likely never had a toxoplasma infection.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean that you have probably been infected with the parasite.
Two types of antibodies are measured, IgM and IgG:

    * If level of IgM antibodies is raised, you likely became infected in the recent past.
    * If level of IgG antibodies is raised, you became infected sometime in the past.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Toxoplasma serology; Toxoplasma antibody titer

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Toxoplasmosis serology â serum. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1104-1105.

Montoya JG, Boothroyd JC, Kovacs JA. _Toxoplasma gondii_. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 280.

## Review Date 9/27/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Toxoplasmosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Toxoplasmosis_thumb.jpg)Toxoplasmosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

