Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001360.htm    
                                Description: Congenital toxoplasmosis is a group of symptoms that occur when an unborn baby (fetus) is infected with the parasite Toxoplasma gondii.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital toxoplasmosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001360.htm

# Congenital toxoplasmosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital toxoplasmosis is a group of symptoms that occur when an unborn baby
(fetus) is infected with the parasite _Toxoplasma gondii_.

## Causes

Toxoplasmosis infection can be passed to a developing baby if the mother
becomes infected while pregnant. The infection spreads to the developing baby
across the placenta. Most of the time, the infection is mild in the mother.
The woman may not be aware she has the parasite. However, infection of the
developing baby can cause serious problems. Problems are worse if the
infection occurs in early pregnancy.

## Symptoms

Up to half babies who become infected with toxoplasmosis during the pregnancy
are born early (prematurely). The infection can damage the baby's eyes,
nervous system, skin, and ears.

Often, there are signs of infection at birth. However, babies with mild
infections may not have symptoms for months or years after birth. If not
treated, most children with this infection develop problems in their teens.
Eye problems are common.

Symptoms may include:

    * Enlarged liver and spleen 
    * Vomiting 
    * Eye damage from inflammation of the retina or other parts of the eye 
    * Feeding problems 
    * Hearing loss 
    * Jaundice (yellow skin) 
    * Low birth weight (intrauterine growth restriction) 
    * Skin rash (tiny red spots or bruising) at birth 
    * Vision problems 

Brain and nervous system damage ranges from very mild to severe, and may
include:

    * Seizures 
    * Intellectual disability 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the baby. The baby may have:

    * Swollen spleen and liver
    * Yellow skin (jaundice)
    * Inflammation of the eyes
    * Fluid on the brain (hydrocephalus)
    * Swollen lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy)
    * Large head size (macrocephaly) or smaller-than-normal head size (microcephaly) 

Tests that may be done during pregnancy include:

    * Amniotic fluid testing and fetal blood testing
    * Antibody titer
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen

After birth, the following tests may be done on the baby:

    * Antibody studies on cord blood and cerebrospinal fluid
    * CT scan of the brain
    * MRI scan of the brain
    * Neurological exams
    * Standard eye exam
    * Toxoplasmosis test 

## Treatment

Spiramycin can treat infection in the pregnant mother.

Pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine can treat fetal infection (diagnosed during the
pregnancy).

Treatment of infants with congenital toxoplasmosis most often includes
pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, and leucovorin for one year. Infants are also
sometimes given steroids if their vision is threatened or if the protein level
in the spinal fluid is high.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the extent of the condition.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Hydrocephalus
    * Blindness or severe visual disability
    * Severe intellectual disability or other neurological problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you are pregnant and think you are at risk
for the infection. (For example, toxoplasmosis infection can be passed from
cats if you clean the cat's litterÂ box.) Call your provider if you are
pregnant and have not had prenatal care.

## Prevention

Women who are pregnant or planning to become pregnant can be tested to find
out if they are at risk for the infection.

Pregnant women who have cats as house pets may be at higher risk. They should
avoid contact with cat feces, or things that could be contaminated by insects
exposed to cat feces (such as cockroaches and flies).

Also, cook meat until it is well done, and wash your hands after handling raw
meat to avoid getting the parasite.

## Images

    * ![Congenital toxoplasmosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17186t.jpg)Congenital toxoplasmosis

## References

Duff P, Birsner M. Maternal and perinatal infection in pregnancy: bacterial.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

McLeod R, Boyer KM. Toxoplasmosis (Toxoplasma gondii). In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 316.

Montoya JG, Boothroyd JC, Kovacs JA. Toxoplasma gondii. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 280.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Toxoplasmosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Toxoplasmosis_thumb.jpg)Toxoplasmosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

