Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000288.htm    
                                Description: Giardia, or giardiasis, is a parasitic infection of the small intestine. A tiny parasite called Giardia lamblia causes it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Giardia infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000288.htm

# Giardia infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Giardia, or giardiasis, is a parasitic infection of the small intestine. A
tiny parasite called _Giardia lamblia_ causes it.

## Causes

The giardia parasite lives in soil, food, and water. It may also be found on
surfaces that have come into contact with animal or human waste.

You may become infected if you:

    * Are exposed to a family member with giardiasis
    * Drink water from lakes or streams where animals such as beavers and muskrats, or domestic animals such as sheep, have left their waste
    * Eat raw or undercooked food that has been contaminated with the parasite
    * Have direct person-to-person contact in daycare centers, long-term care homes, or nursing homes with people who are infected with the parasite
    * Have unprotected anal sex

Travelers are at risk for giardiasis throughout the world. Campers and hikers
are at risk if they drink untreated water from streams and lakes.

## Symptoms

The time between becoming infected and symptoms is 7 to 14 days.

Diarrhea is the main symptom. Other symptoms include:

    * Abdominal gas or bloating
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Low-grade fever
    * Nausea
    * Weight loss and loss of body fluids

Some people who have had a giardia infection for a long time continue having
symptoms, even after the infection is gone.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Stool antigen test to check for giardia 
    * Stool ova and parasites exam
    * String test (rarely performed)

## Treatment

If there are no symptoms or only mild symptoms, no treatment may be needed.
Some infections go away on their own within a few weeks.

Medicines may be used for:

    * Severe symptoms or symptoms that do not go away
    * People who work in a daycare center or nursing home, to reduce the spread of disease 

Antibiotic treatment is successful for most people. These include tinidazole,
nitazoxanide or metronidazole. A change in the type of antibiotic will be
tried if symptoms do not go away. Side effects from some of the medicines used
to treat giardia are:

    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Nausea
    * Severe reaction to alcohol 

In most pregnant women, treatment should not start until after delivery. Some
drugs used to treat the infection can be harmful to the unborn baby.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Dehydration (loss of water and other fluids in the body)
    * Malabsorption (inadequate absorption of nutrients from the intestinal tract)
    * Weight loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Diarrhea or other symptoms last for more than 14 days
    * You have blood in your stool
    * You are dehydrated

## Prevention

Purify all stream, pond, river, lake, or well water before drinking it. Use
methods such as boiling, filtration, or iodine treatment.

Workers in daycare centers or institutions should use good handwashing and
hygiene techniques when going from child to child or person to person.

Safer sexual practices may decrease the risk for getting or spreading
giardiasis. People practicing anal sex should be especially careful.

Peel or wash fresh fruits and vegetables before eating them.

## Alternative Names

Giardia; _G. duodenalis;Â G. intestinalis;_ Traveler's diarrhea - giardiasis

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Giardiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18139t.jpg)Giardiasis
    * ![Institutional hygiene](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19075t.jpg)Institutional hygiene
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Nash TE, Hill DR. Giardiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 351.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Giardia
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GiardiaInfections_thumb.jpg)Giardia
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

