Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003590.htm    
                                Description: The stool C difficile toxin test detects harmful substances produced by the bacterium Clostridioides difficile (C difficile). This infection is a common cause of diarrhea after antibiotic use.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stool C difficile toxin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003590.htm

# Stool C difficile toxin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The stool _C difficile_ toxin test detects harmful substances produced by the
bacterium _Clostridioides difficile_ ( _C difficile_ ). This infection is a
common cause of diarrhea after antibiotic use.

## How the Test is Performed

A stool sample is needed. It is sent to a lab to be analyzed. There are
several ways to detect _C difficile_ toxin in the stool sample.

Enzyme immunoassay (EIA) is most often used to detect substances produced by
the bacteria. This test is faster than older tests, and simpler to perform.
The results are ready in a few hours. However, it is slightly less sensitive
than earlier methods. Several stool samples may be needed to get an accurate
result.

A newer method is to use PCR to detect the toxin genes. This is the most
sensitive and specific test. Results are ready within 1 hour. Only one stool
sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There are many ways to collect the samples.

    * You can catch the stool on plastic wrap that is loosely placed over the toilet bowl and held in place by the toilet seat. Then you put the sample in a clean container. 
    * A test kit is available that supplies a special toilet tissue that you use to collect the sample. After collecting the sample, you put it in a container.

Do not mix urine, water, or toilet tissue with the sample.

For children wearing diapers:

    * Line the diaper with plastic wrap. 
    * Position the plastic wrap so that it will prevent urine and stool from mixing. This will provide a better sample.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test if your health care provider thinks that diarrhea is
caused by the antibiotic medicines you have taken recently. Antibiotics change
the balance of bacteria in the colon. This sometimes leads to too much growth
of _C difficile_.

Diarrhea caused by _C difficile_ after antibiotic use often occurs in people
who are in the hospital. It also can occur in people who have not recently
taken antibiotics. This condition is called pseudomembranous colitis.

## Normal Results

No _C difficile_ toxin is detected.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean that toxins produced by _C difficile_ are seen in the
stool and are causing diarrhea.

## Risks

There are no risks associated with testing for _C difficile_ toxin.

## Considerations

Several stool samples may be needed to detect the condition. This is
particularly true if the older EIA for toxin test is used.

## Alternative Names

Antibiotic associated colitis - toxin; Colitis - toxin; Pseudomembranous -
toxin; Necrotizing colitis - toxin; C difficile - toxin

## Images

    * ![Clostridium difficile organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1051t.jpg)Clostridium difficile organism

## References

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Dupont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Gerding DN, Johnson S. Clostridial infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 296.

Gerding DN, Young VB. Clostridium difficle infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. Mandell, _Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
245.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/10/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 12/17/2019.

![Clostridium Difficile
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ClostridiumDifficileInfections_thumb.jpg)Clostridium
Difficile Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

