Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007703.htm    
                                Description: Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) helps to replace some of the &quot;bad&quot; bacteria of your colon with &quot;good&quot; bacteria. The procedure helps to restore the good bacteria that has been killed off or limited    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fecal microbiota transplant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007703.htm

# Fecal microbiota transplant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) helps to replace some of the "bad"
bacteria of your colon with "good" bacteria. The procedure helps to restore
the good bacteria that has been killed off or limited by the use of
antibiotics. Restoring this balance in the colon makes it easier to fight
infection.

## Description

FMT involves collecting stool from a healthy donor. Your health care provider
will ask you to identify a donor. Most people choose a family member or close
friend. The donor must not have used antibiotics for the previous 2 to 3 days.
They will be screened for any infections in the blood or stool.

Once collected, the donor's stool is mixed with saline water and filtered. The
stool mixture is then transferred into your digestive tract (colon) through a
tube that goes through a colonoscope (a thin, flexible tube with a small
camera). The good bacteria can also be introduced into the body by way of a
tube that goes into the stomach through the mouth. Another method is to
swallow a capsule that contains freeze-dried donor stool.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The large intestine has a large number of bacteria. These bacteria that live
in your intestines are important for your health, and grow in a balanced
manner.

One of these bacteria is called _Clostridioides difficile_ ( _C difficile)_.
In small amounts, it does not cause problems.

    * However, if a person receives repeated or high doses of antibiotics for an infection elsewhere in the body, most of the normal bacteria in the intestine may be wiped out. Bacteria grow and release a toxin.
    * The result may be that too much of the _C difficile_.
    * This toxin causes the lining of large intestine to become swollen and inflamed, causing fever, diarrhea, and bleeding. 

Certain other antibiotics can sometimes bring the _C difficile_ bacteria under
control. If these do not succeed, FMT is used to replace some of the _C
difficile_ with "good" bacteria and restore the balance.

FMT also may be used to treat conditions such as:

    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Crohn disease
    * Constipation
    * Ulcerative colitis

Treatment of conditions other than recurrent _C difficile_ colitis are
considered experimental at present and are not widely used or known to be
effective.

## Risks

Risks for FMT may include the following:

    * Reactions to the medicine you are given during the procedure 
    * Heavy or ongoing bleeding during the procedure
    * Breathing problems
    * Spread of disease from the donor (if the donor is not screened properly, which is rare)
    * Infection during colonoscopy (very rare)
    * Blood clots (very rare)

## Before the Procedure

The donor will likely take a laxative the night before the procedure so they
can have a bowel movement the next morning. They will collect a stool sample
in a clean cup and bring it with them the day of the procedure.

Talk to your provider about any allergies and all medicines you are taking. DO
NOT stop taking any medicine without talking to your provider. You will need
to stop taking any antibiotics for 2 to 3 days before the procedure.

You may need to follow a liquid diet. You may be asked to take laxatives the
night before the procedure. You will need to prepare for a colonoscopy the
night before FMT. Your doctor will give you instructions.

Before the procedure, you'll be given medicines to make you sleepy so that you
won't feel any discomfort or have any memory of the test.

## After the Procedure

You will lie on your side for about 2 hours after the procedure with the
solution in your bowels. You may be given loperamide (Imodium) to help slow
down your bowels so the solution remains in place during this time.

You will go home the same day of the procedure once you pass the stool
mixture. You will need a ride home, so be sure to arrange it ahead of time.
You should avoid driving, drinking alcohol, or any heavy lifting.

You may have a low-grade fever the night after the procedure. You may have
bloating, gas, flatulence, and constipation for a few days after the
procedure.

Your provider will instruct you about the type of diet and medicines you need
to take after the procedure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This life-saving treatment is highly safe, effective and, low cost. FMT helps
by bringing back normal flora through donor stool. This in turn helps in the
recovery of your normal bowel function and health.

## Alternative Names

Fecal bacteriotherapy; Stool transplant; Fecal transplant; C. difficile
colitis - fecal transplant; Clostridium difficile - fecal transplant;
Clostridioides difficile - fecal transplant; Pseudomembranous colitis - fecal
transplant

## References

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Rao K, Safdar N. Fecal microbiota transplantation for the treatment of
Clostridium difficile infection. _J Hosp Med_. 2016;11(1):56-61. PMID:
26344412 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26344412.

Schneider A, Maric L. Fecal microbiota transplantation as a therapy for
inflammatory bowel disease. In: Shen B, ed. _Interventional Inflammatory Bowel
Disease_. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2018:chap 28.

Surawicz CM, Brandt LJ. Probiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 130.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 12/17/2019.

![Clostridium Difficile
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ClostridiumDifficileInfections_thumb.jpg)Clostridium
Difficile Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

