Link: https://medlineplus.gov/acutelymphocyticleukemia.html    
                                Description: Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL) or Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia is a cancer of the white blood cells. Learn more about symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/acutelymphocyticleukemia.html

#  Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia

Also called: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, ALL

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. White blood cells help your body
fight infection. Your blood cells form in your bone marrow. In leukemia,
however, the bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells. These cells
crowd out the healthy blood cells, making it hard for blood to do its work. In
acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), also called acute lymphoblastic leukemia,
there are too many of specific types of white blood cells called lymphocytes
or lymphoblasts. ALL is the most common type of cancer in children.

Possible risk factors for ALL include being male, being white, previous
chemotherapy treatment, exposure to radiation, and for adults, being older
than 70.

Symptoms of ALL include:

    * Weakness or feeling tired
    * Fever
    * Easy bruising or bleeding
    * Bleeding under the skin
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weight loss or loss of appetite
    * Pain in the bones or stomach
    * Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs
    * Painless lumps in the neck, underarm, stomach, or groin

Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow diagnose ALL. Treatments include
chemotherapy, radiation therapy, stem cell transplants, and targeted therapy.
Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer
cells with less harm to normal cells. Once the leukemia is in remission, you
need additional treatment to make sure that it does not come back.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) (National Marrow Donor Program)
    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * General Information about Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL)? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * BCR ABL Genetic Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia Classified? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Lab and Imaging Tests (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Bone Marrow Tests? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * What Are the Risk Factors for Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood Transfusion (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Integrative Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Therapies (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Targeted Therapy for Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Electromagnetic Fields and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Should You Ask Your Doctor about Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Advances in Leukemia Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cancer Statistics: Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Adult Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL) in Adults Research? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Leukemia, Lymphoid ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Types of Treatment: Clinical Trials (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Reduced-intensity haploidentical peripheral blood stem cell transplantation using low-dose thymoglobulin for...
    * Article: Recent advances in the understanding and therapeutic management of mastocytosis.
    * Article: Single-cell multiomic analysis identifies regulatory programs in mixed-phenotype acute leukemia.
    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * B and T cell screen
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Fibrinopeptide A blood test
    * T-cell count

## Related Health Topics

    * Acute Myeloid Leukemia
    * Childhood Leukemia
    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
    * Leukemia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 20 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

