Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001557.htm    
                                Description: Mumps is a contagious disease that leads to painful swelling of the salivary glands. The salivary glands produce saliva, a liquid that moistens food and helps you chew and swallow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mumps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001557.htm

# Mumps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mumps is a contagious disease that leads to painful swelling of the salivary
glands. The salivary glands produce saliva, a liquid that moistens food and
helps you chew and swallow.

## Causes

Mumps is caused by a virus. The virus spreads from person to person by drops
of moisture from the nose and mouth, such as through sneezing. It is also
spread through direct contact with items that have infected saliva on them.

Mumps most often occurs in children ages 2 through 12 who have not been
vaccinated against the disease. However, the infection can occur at any age
and may also be seen in college age students.

The time between being exposed to the virus and getting sick (incubation
period) is about 12 to 25 days.

Mumps may also infect the:

    * Central nervous system
    * Pancreas
    * Testes

## Symptoms

Symptoms of mumps may include:

    * Face pain
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Sore throat
    * Loss of appetite
    * Swelling of the parotid glands (the largest salivary glands, located between the ear and the jaw)
    * Swelling of the temples or jaw (temporomandibular area) 

Other symptoms that can occur in males are:

    * Testicle lump
    * Testicle pain
    * Scrotal swelling

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform an exam and ask about the symptoms,
especially when they started.

No tests are needed in most cases. The provider can usually diagnose mumps by
looking at the symptoms.

Blood tests may be needed to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for mumps. The following things can be done to
relieve symptoms:

    * Apply ice or heat packs to the neck area.
    * Take acetaminophen (Tylenol) to relieve pain. DO NOT give aspirin to children with a viral illness because of the risk for Reye syndrome.
    * Drink extra fluid.
    * Eat soft foods.
    * Gargle with warm salt water. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this disease do well most of the time, even if organs are
involved. After the illness is over in about 7 days, they'll be immune to
mumps for the rest of their life.

## Possible Complications

Infection of other organs may occur, including testicle swelling (orchitis).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has mumps along with:

    * Red eyes
    * ConstantÂ drowsiness
    * Constant vomiting or abdominal pain
    * Severe headache
    * Pain or a lump in testicle 

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or visit the emergency room if
seizures occur.

## Prevention

MMR immunization (vaccine) protects against measles, mumps, and rubella. It
should be given to children at these ages:

    * First dose: 12 through 15 months old
    * Second dose: 4 through 6 years old

Adults can also receive the vaccine. Talk to your provider about this.

Recent outbreaks of the mumps have supported the importance of having all
children vaccinated.

## Alternative Names

Epidemic parotitis; Viral parotitis; Parotitis

## Images

    * ![Head and neck glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9654t.jpg)Head and neck glands

## References

Gnann JW. Mumps. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 369.

Litman N, Baum SG. Mumps virus. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 159.

Mason WH. Mumps. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 248.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mumps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mumps_thumb.jpg)Mumps _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

