Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001244.htm    
                                Description: Systemic exertion intolerance disease/chronic fatigue syndrome (SEID/CFS) is a long-term illness that affects many body systems. People with this illness are not able to do their usual activities. Sometimes,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic fatigue syndrome/Systemic exertion intolerance disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001244.htm

# Chronic fatigue syndrome/Systemic exertion intolerance disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Systemic exertion intolerance disease/chronic fatigue syndrome (SEID/CFS) is a
long-term illness that affects many body systems. People with this illness are
not able to do their usual activities. Sometimes, they may be confined to bed.

One common symptom is severe fatigue. It does not get better with rest and is
not directly caused by other medical problems. Other symptoms can include
problems with thinking and concentrating, pain, and dizziness.

## Causes

The exact cause of SEID/CFS is unknown. It may have more than one cause. For
example, two or more possible causes may work together to trigger the illness.

Researchers are looking into these possible causes:

    *  **Infection** \-- About 1 out of 10 people who develop certain infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus and Q fever, go on to develop SEID/CFS. Other infections have also been studied, but no one cause has been found.
    *  **Immune system changes** \-- SEID/CFS may be triggered by changes in the way a person's immune system responses to stress or illness.
    *  **Mental or physical stress** \-- Many people with SEID/CFS have been under serious mental or physical stress before becoming ill.
    *  **Energy production** \-- The way that cells within the body get energy is different in people with SEID/CFS than in people without the condition. It's unclear how this is linked to developing the illness. 

Genetics or environmental factors may also play a role in the development of
SEID/CFS:

    * Anyone can get SEID/CFS.
    * While most common in people between age 40 and 60 years old, the illness affects children, adolescents, and adults of all ages.
    * Among adults, women are affected more often than men.
    * Whites are diagnosed more than other races and ethnicities. But many people with SEID/CFS have not been diagnosed, particularly among minorities. 

## Symptoms

There are three main, or "core," symptoms in people with SEID/CFS:

    * Profound fatigue
    * Worsening symptoms after physical or mental activity
    * Sleep problems

People with SEID/CFS have persistent and profound fatigue and are unable to do
activities they were able to do before the illness. This extreme fatigue is:

    * New
    * Lasts at least 6 months
    * Not due to unusual or intense activity
    * Not relieved by sleep or bed rest
    * Severe enough to keep you from participating in certain activities

SEID/CFS symptoms can become worse after physical or mental activity. This is
called post-exertional malaise (PEM), also known as a crash, relapse, or
collapse.

    * For example, you may experience a crash after shopping at the grocery store and need to take a nap before driving home. Or you may need someone to come pick you up.
    * There is no way to predict what will cause a crash or know how long it will take to recover. It can take days, weeks, or longer to recover.

Sleep issues may include problems falling or staying asleep. A full-night's
rest does not relieve fatigue and other symptoms.

People with SEID/CFS also often experience at least one of the two following
symptoms:

    * Forgetfulness, concentration problems, problems following details (also called "brain fog")
    * Worsening symptoms when standing or sitting upright. This is called orthostatic intolerance. You may feel dizzy, lightheaded, or faint when standing or sitting up. You also may have vision changes or see spots.

Other common symptoms include:

    * Joint pain without swelling or redness, muscle aches, muscle weakness all over, or headaches that differ from those you have had in the past
    * Sore throat, sore lymph nodes in the neck or under the arms, chills and night sweats
    * Digestive problems, such as irritable bowel syndrome
    * Allergies
    * Sensitivity to noise, food, odors, or chemicals

## Exams and Tests

The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) describes SEID/CFS as a distinct
disorder with specific symptoms and physical signs. Diagnosis is based on
ruling out other possible causes.

Your health care provider will try to rule out other possible causes of
fatigue, including:

    * Drug dependence
    * Immune or autoimmune disorders
    * Infections
    * Muscle or nerve diseases (such as multiple sclerosis)
    * Endocrine diseases (such as hypothyroidism)
    * Other illnesses (such as heart, kidney, or liver diseases)
    * Psychiatric or psychological illnesses, particularly depression
    * Tumors

A diagnosis of SEID/CFS must include:

    * Absence of other causes of long-term (chronic) fatigue
    * At least four SEID/CFS-specific symptoms
    * Extreme, long-term fatigue

There are no specific tests to confirm the diagnosis of SEID/CFS. However,
there have been reports of people with SEID/CFS having abnormal results on the
following tests:

    * Brain MRI
    * White blood cell count

## Treatment

There is currently no cure for SEID/CFS. The goal of treatment is to relieve
symptoms.

Treatment includes a combination of the following:

    * Sleep management techniques
    * Medicines to reduce pain, discomfort, and fever
    * Medicines to treat anxiety (anti-anxiety drugs)
    * Medicines to treat depression (antidepressant drugs)
    * Healthy diet

Some drugs can cause reactions or side effects that are worse than the
original symptoms of the disease.

People with SEID/CFS are encouraged to maintain an active social life. Mild
physical exercise may also be helpful. Your health care team will help you
figure out how much activity you can do, and how to slowly increase your
activity. Tips include:

    * Avoid doing too much on days when you feel tired
    * Balance your time between activity, rest, and sleep
    * Break big tasks into smaller, more manageable ones
    * Spread out your more challenging tasks through the week 

Relaxation and stress-reduction techniques can help manage chronic (long-term)
pain and fatigue. They are not used as the primary treatment for SEID/CFS.
Relaxation techniques include:

    * Biofeedback
    * Deep breathing exercises
    * Hypnosis
    * Massage therapy
    * Meditation
    * Muscle relaxation techniques
    * Yoga 

It also may be helpful to work with a therapist to help you deal with your
feelings and the impact of the illness on your life.

Newer medicine approaches are being researched.

## Support Groups

Some people may benefit from taking part in an SEID/CFS support group.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The long-term outlook for people with SEID/CFS varies. It is hard to predict
when symptoms first start. Some people completely recover after 6 months to a
year.

About 1 in 4 people with SEID/CFS are so severely disabled that they can't get
out of bed or leave their home. Symptoms can come and go in cycles, and even
when people feel better, they may experience a relapse triggered by exertion
or an unknown cause.

Some people never feel like they did before they developed SEID/CFS. Studies
suggest that you are more likely to get better if you receive extensive
rehabilitation.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Depression
    * Inability to take part in work and social activities, which can lead to isolation
    * Side effects from medicines or treatments

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have severe fatigue, with or without other symptoms
of this disorder. Other more serious disorders can cause similar symptoms and
should be ruled out.

## Alternative Names

CFS; Fatigue - chronic; Immune dysfunction syndrome; Myalgic encephalomyelitis
(ME); Myalgic encephalopathy chronic fatigue syndrome (ME-CFS); Systemic
exertion intolerance disease (SEID)

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Myalgic
encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome: treatment. www.cdc.gov/me-
cfs/treatment/index.html. Updated July 12, 2018. Accessed June 25, 2019.

Clauw DJ. Fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and myofascial pain. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 258.

Committee on the Diagnostic Criteria for Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic
Fatigue Syndrome; Board on the Health of Select Populations; Institute of
Medicine. Beyond myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome:
redefining an illness. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2015. PMID:
25695122 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25695122.

Ebenbichler GR. Chronic fatigue syndrome. In: Frontera, WR, Silver JK, Rizzo
TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation._ 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 126.

Engleberg NC. Chronic fatigue syndrome (systemic exertion intolerance
disease). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 133.

Smith ME, Haney E, McDonagh M, et al. Treatment of myalgic
encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome: a systematic review for a National
Institutes of Health Pathways to Prevention Workshop. _Ann Intern Med._
2015;162(12):841-850. PMID: 26075755 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26075755.

van der Meer JWM, Bleijenberg G. Chronic fatigue syndrome. In: Cohen J,
Powderly WG, Opal SM, eds. _Infectious Diseases._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 70.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 07/12/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CFS_thumb.jpg)Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

