Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000216.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis D is a viral infection caused by the hepatitis D virus (previously called the Delta agent). It causes symptoms only in people who also have hepatitis B infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis D (Delta agent)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000216.htm

# Hepatitis D (Delta agent)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis D is a viral infection caused by the hepatitis D virus (previously
called the Delta agent). It causes symptoms only in people who also have
hepatitis B infection.

## Causes

Hepatitis D virus (HDV) is found only in people who carry the hepatitis B
virus. HDV may make liver disease worse in people who have either recent
(acute) or long-term (chronic) hepatitis B. It can even cause symptoms in
people who carry hepatitis B virus but who never had symptoms.

Hepatitis D infects about 15 million people worldwide. It occurs in a small
number of people who carry hepatitis B.

Risk factors include:

    * Abusing intravenous (IV) or injection drugs
    * Being infected while pregnant (the mother can pass the virus to the baby)
    * Carrying the hepatitis B virus
    * Men having sexual intercourse with other men
    * Receiving many blood transfusions 

## Symptoms

Hepatitis D may make the symptoms of hepatitis B worse.

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Dark-colored urine
    * Fatigue
    * Jaundice
    * Joint pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

You may need the following tests:

    * Anti-hepatitis D antibody
    * Liver biopsy
    * Liver enzymes (blood test) 

## Treatment

Many of the medicines used to treat hepatitis B are not helpful for treating
hepatitis D.

You may receive a medicine called alpha interferon for up to 12 months if you
have a long-term HDV infection. A liver transplant for end-stage chronic
hepatitis B may be effective.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with an acute HDV infection most often get better over 2 to 3 weeks.
Liver enzyme levels return to normal within 16 weeks.

About 1 in 10 of those who are infected may develop long-term (chronic) liver
inflammation (hepatitis).

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Chronic active hepatitis
    * Acute liver failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of hepatitis B.

## Prevention

Steps to prevent the condition include:

    * Detect and treat hepatitis B infection as soon as possible to help prevent hepatitis D.
    * Avoid intravenous (IV) drug abuse. If you use IV drugs, avoid sharing needles.
    * Get vaccinated against hepatitis B. 

Adults who are at high risk for hepatitis B infection and all children should
get this vaccine. If you do not get Hepatitis B, you cannot get Hepatitis D.

## Alternative Names

Delta agent

## Images

    * ![Hepatitis B virus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1031t.jpg)Hepatitis B virus

## References

Alves VAF. Acute viral hepatitis. In: Saxena R, ed. _Practical Hepatic
Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 13.

Landaverde C, Perrillo R. Hepatitis D. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 81.

Thio CL, Hawkins C. Hepatitis B virus and hepatitis delta virus. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 148.

## Review Date 10/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![Hepatitis B](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisB2_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
B _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

