Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000226.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced liver injury is an injury of the liver that may occur when you take certain medicines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced liver injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000226.htm

# Drug-induced liver injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced liver injury is an injury of the liver that may occur when you
take certain medicines.

Other types of liver injury include:

    * Viral hepatitis
    * Alcoholic hepatitis
    * Autoimmune hepatitis
    * Iron overloadÂ 
    * Fatty liver

## Causes

The liver helps the body break down certain medicines. These include some
drugs that you buy over-the-counter or your health care provider prescribes
for you. However, the process is slower in some people. This can make you more
likely to get liver damage.

Some drugs can cause hepatitis with small doses, even if the liver breakdown
system is normal. Large doses of many medicines can damage a normal liver.

Many different drugs can cause drug-induced hepatitis.

Painkillers and fever reducers that contain acetaminophen are a common cause
of liver injury, particularly when taken in doses greater than those
recommended. People who drink alcohol to excess are more likely to have this
problem.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, diclofenac,
and naproxen, may also cause drug-induced hepatitis.

Other drugs that can lead to liver injury include:

    * Amiodarone
    * Anabolic steroids
    * Birth control pills
    * Chlorpromazine
    * Erythromycin
    * Halothane (a type of anesthesia)
    * Methyldopa
    * Isoniazid
    * Methotrexate
    * Statins
    * Sulfa drugs
    * Tetracyclines
    * Amoxicillin-clavulanate
    * Some anti-seizure medicines 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include

    * Abdominal pain
    * Dark urine
    * Diarrhea
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Jaundice
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Rash
    * White or clay-colored stools 

## Exams and Tests

You will have blood tests to check liver function. Liver enzymes will be
higher if you have the condition.

Your provider will do a physical exam to check for an enlarged liver and
abdominal tenderness in the right upper part of the belly area. A rash or
fever may be part of some drug reactions that affect the liver.

## Treatment

The only specific treatment for most cases of liver damage caused by taking a
drug is to stop the drug that caused the problem.

However, if you took high doses of acetaminophen, you should get treated for
liver injury in the emergency department or other acute treatment setting as
soon as possible.

If symptoms are severe, you should rest and avoid heavy exercise, alcohol,
acetaminophen, and any other substances that might harm the liver. You may
need to get fluids through a vein if nausea and vomiting are very bad.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Drug-induced liver injury most often goes away within days or weeks after you
stop taking the drug that caused it.

## Possible Complications

Rarely, drug-induced liver injury can lead to liver failure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of liver injury after you start taking a new medicine.
    * You have been diagnosed with drug-induced liver injury and your symptoms do not get better after you stop taking the medicine.
    * You develop any new symptoms. 

## Prevention

Never use more than the recommended dose of over-the-counter medicines
containing acetaminophen (Tylenol).

DO NOT take these medicines if you drink heavily or regularly; talk to your
provider about safe doses.

Always tell yourÂ provider about all the medicines you take, including over-
the-counter drugs and herbal or supplemental preparations. This is very
important if you have liver disease.

Talk to your provider about other medicines you may need to avoid. Your
provider can tell you which medicines are safe for you.

## Alternative Names

Toxic hepatitis; Drug-induced hepatitis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Hepatomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9396t.jpg)Hepatomegaly

## References

Chalasani NP, Hayashi PH, Bonkovsky HL, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: the
diagnosis and management of idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury. _Am J
Gastroenterol_. 2014;109(7):950-966. PMID: 24935270
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24935270.

Chitturi S, Teoh NC, Farrell GC. Hepatic drug metabolism and liver disease
caused by drugs. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 88.

Devarbhavi H, Bonkovsky HL, Russo M, Chalasani N. Drug-induced liver injury.
In: Sanyal AJ, Boyer TD, Lindor KD, Terrault NA, eds. _Zakim and Boyer's
Hepatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 56.

Theise ND. Liver and gallbladder. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds.
_Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

