Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001154.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis is swelling and inflammation of the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001154.htm

# Hepatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis is swelling and inflammation of the liver.

## Causes

Hepatitis can be caused by:

    * Immune cells in the body attacking the liver
    * Infections from viruses (such as hepatitis A, hepatitis B, or hepatitis C), bacteria, or parasites
    * Liver damage from alcohol or poison
    * Medicines, such as an overdose of acetaminophen
    * Fatty liver

Liver disease can also be caused by inherited disorders such as cystic
fibrosis or hemochromatosis, a condition that involves having too much iron in
your body.

Other causes include Wilson disease, a disorder in which the body retains too
much copper.

## Symptoms

Hepatitis may start and get better quickly. It may also become a long-term
condition. In some cases, hepatitis may lead to liver damage, liver failure,
cirrhosis, or even liver cancer.

There are several factors that can affect how severe the condition is. These
may include the cause of the liver damage and any illnesses you have.
Hepatitis A, for example, is most often short-term and does not lead to
chronic liver problems.

The symptoms of hepatitis include:

    * Pain or bloating in the belly area
    * Dark urine and pale or clay-colored stools
    * Fatigue
    * Low grade fever
    * Itching
    * Jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes)
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Weight loss 

You may not have symptoms when first infected with hepatitis B or C. You can
still develop liver failure later. If you have any risk factors for either
type of hepatitis, you should be tested often.

## Exams and Tests

You will have a physical exam to look for:

    * Enlarged and tender liver
    * Fluid in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Yellowing of the skin 

You may have lab tests to diagnose and monitor your condition, including:

    * Ultrasound of the abdomen
    * Autoimmune blood markers
    * Blood tests to diagnose Hepatitis A, B, or C
    * Liver function tests
    * Liver biopsy to check for liver damage (may be needed in some cases)
    * Paracentesis (if fluid is in your abdomen) 

## Treatment

Your health care provider will talk to you about treatment options. Treatments
will vary, depending on the cause of your liver disease. You may need to eat a
high-calorie diet if you are losing weight.

## Support Groups

There are support groups for people with all types of hepatitis. These groups
can help you learn about the latest treatments and how to cope with having the
disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook for hepatitis will depend on what is causing the liver damage.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Permanent liver damage, called cirrhosis
    * Liver failure
    * Liver cancer 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek care immediately if you:

    * Have symptoms from too much acetaminophen or other medicines. You may need to have your stomach pumped
    * Vomit blood
    * Have bloody or tarry stools
    * Are confused or delirious 

Call your provider if:

    * You have any symptoms of hepatitis or believe that you have been exposed to hepatitis A, B, or C.
    * You cannot keep food down due to excessive vomiting. You may need to receive nutrition through a vein (intravenously).
    * You feel sick and have travelled to Asia, Africa, South America, or Central America. 

## Prevention

Talk to your provider about having a vaccine to prevent hepatitis A and
hepatitis B.

Steps for preventing the spread of hepatitis B and C from one person to
another include:

    * Avoid sharing personal items, such as razors or toothbrushes.
    * DO NOT share drug needles or other drug equipment (such as straws for snorting drugs).
    * Clean blood spills with a mixture of 1 part household bleach to 9 parts water.
    * DO NOT get tattoos or body piercings with instruments that have not been cleaned properly. 

To reduce your risk of spreading or catching hepatitis A:

    * Always wash your hands well after using the restroom, and when you come in contact with an infected person's blood, stools, or other bodily fluid.
    * Avoid unclean food and water. 

## Images

    * ![Hepatitis B virus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1031t.jpg)Hepatitis B virus
    * ![Hepatitis C](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17217t.jpg)Hepatitis C
    * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy

## References

Czaja AJ. Autoimmune hepatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

Pawlotsky J-M. Chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 149.

Sjogren MH, Bassett JT. Hepatitis A. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

Takyar V, Ghany MG. Hepatitis A, B, D, and E. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:214-220.

Wedemeyer H. Hepatitis C. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 80.

Wells JT, Perrillo R. Hepatitis B. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 1/15/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

