Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000877.htm    
                                Description: Ringworm is a skin infection that is caused by fungi. It is also called tinea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ringworm of the body

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000877.htm

# Ringworm of the body

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ringworm is a skin infection that is caused by fungi. It is also called tinea.

Related skin fungus infections may appear:

    * On the scalp
    * In a man's beard
    * In the groin (jock itch)
    * Between the toes (athlete's foot) 

## Causes

Fungi are germs that can live on the dead tissue of the hair, nails, and outer
skin layers. Ringworm of the body is caused by mold-like fungi called
dermatophytes.

Ringworm of the body is common in children, but can occur in people of all
ages.

Fungi thrive in warm, moist areas. A ringworm infection is more likely if you:

    * Have wet skin for a long time (such as from sweating)
    * Have minor skin and nail injuries
    * Do notÂ bathe or wash your hair often
    * Have close contact with other people (such as in sports like wrestling) 

Ringworm can spread easily. You can catch it if you come into direct contact
with an area of ringworm on someone's body. You can also get it by touching
items that have the fungi on them, such as:

    * Clothing
    * Combs
    * Pool surfaces
    * Shower floors and walls 

Ringworm can also be spread by pets. Cats are common carriers.

## Symptoms

The rash begins as a small area of red, raised spots and pimples. The rash
slowly becomes ring-shaped, with a red, raised border and a clearer center.
The border may look scaly.

The rash may occur on the arms, legs, face, or other exposed body areas.

The area may be itchy.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can oftenÂ diagnose ringworm by looking at your
skin.

You may also need the following tests:

    * Examination of a skin scraping from the rash under a microscope using a special test
    * Skin culture for fungus
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

Keep your skin clean and dry.

Use creams that treat fungal infections.

    * Creams that contain miconazole, clotrimazole, ketoconazole, terbinafine, or oxiconazole, or other antifungal medicines are often effective in controlling ringworm.
    * You can buy some of these creams over-the-counter, or your provider may give you a prescription. 

To use this medicine:

    * Wash and dry the area first.
    * Apply the cream, beginning just outside the area of the rash and moving toward the center. Be sure to wash and dry your hands afterward.
    * Use the cream twice a day for 7 to 10 days.
    * Do notÂ use a bandage over ringworm. 

Your provider may prescribe medicine to take by mouth if your infection is
very bad.

A child with ringworm can return to school once treatment has started.

To prevent the infection from spreading:

    * Wash clothing, towels, and bedding in hot, soapy water and then dry themÂ using hottest heat as recommended on the care label.
    * Use a new towel and washcloth every time you wash.
    * Clean sinks, bathtubs, and bathroom floors well after each use.
    * Wear clean clothes every day and do not share clothes.
    * If you play contact sports, shower right away afterward. 

Infected pets should also be treated.Â This is because ringworm can spread
from animals to humans by contact.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Ringworm often goes away within 4 weeks when using antifungal creams. The
infection may spread to the feet, scalp, groin, or nails.Â

## Possible Complications

Two complications of ringworm are:

    * Skin infection from scratching too much 
    * Other skin disorders that require further treatment

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if ringworm does not get better with self-care.

## Alternative Names

Tinea corporis;Â Fungal infection - body; Tinea circinata; Ringworm - body

## Images

    * ![Dermatitis - reaction to tinea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1016t.jpg)Dermatitis - reaction to tinea
    * ![Ringworm - tinea corporis on an infant's leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1592t.jpg)Ringworm - tinea corporis on an infant's leg
    * ![Tinea versicolor - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1890t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - close-up
    * ![Tinea versicolor - shoulders](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1895t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - shoulders
    * ![Ringworm - tinea on the hand and leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2467t.jpg)Ringworm - tinea on the hand and leg
    * ![Tinea versicolor - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2478t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - close-up
    * ![Tinea versicolor on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2479t.jpg)Tinea versicolor on the back
    * ![Ringworm - tinea manuum on the finger](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2531t.jpg)Ringworm - tinea manuum on the finger
    * ![Ringworm - tinea corporis on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2557t.jpg)Ringworm - tinea corporis on the leg
    * ![Granuloma - fungal \(Majocchi's\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2563t.jpg)Granuloma - fungal (Majocchi's)
    * ![Granuloma - fungal \(Majocchi's\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2564t.jpg)Granuloma - fungal (Majocchi's)
    * ![Tinea corporis - ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3093t.jpg)Tinea corporis - ear

## References

Habif TP. Superficial fungal infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Hay RJ. Dermatophytosis (ringworm) and other superficial mycoses. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 268.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tinea
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TineaInfections2_thumb.jpg)Tinea
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

