Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000876.htm    
                                Description: Jock itch is an infection of the groin area caused by a fungus. The medical term is tinea cruris, or ringworm of the groin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jock itch

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000876.htm

# Jock itch

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jock itch is an infection of the groin area caused by a fungus. The medical
term is tinea cruris, or ringworm of the groin.

## Causes

Jock itch occurs when a type of fungus grows and spreads in the groin area.

Jock itch occurs mostly in adult men and teenage boys. Some people who have
this infection also have athlete's foot or another kind of ringworm. The
fungus that causes jock itch thrives in warm, moist areas.

Jock itch can be triggered by friction from clothes and prolonged moistness in
the groin area, such as from sweating. A fungal infection of the feet can
spread to the groin area by pulling up pants if the waistband gets
contaminated with fungus from the feet.

Jock itch can be passed from one person to another by direct skin-to-skin
contact or contact with unwashed clothing.

## Symptoms

Jock itch usually stays around the creases of the upper thigh and does not
involve the scrotum or penis. Jock itch may spread to near the anus, causing
anal itching and discomfort. Symptoms include:

    * Red, raised, scaly patches that may blister and ooze. TheÂ patches often have sharply-defined edges with scale at the edges.Â 
    * Abnormally dark or light skin. Sometimes, these changes are permanent.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose jock itch based on how your
skin looks.

Tests are usually not necessary. If tests are needed, they may include:

    * A simple office test called aÂ KOH exam to check for fungus 
    * Skin culture
    * A skin biopsy may also be performed with a special stain called PAS to identify fungus and yeast 

## Treatment

Jock itch usually responds to self-care within a couple of weeks:

    * Keep the skin clean and dry in the groin area.
    * Do not wear clothing that rubs and irritates the area. Wear loose-fitting underwear.
    * Wash athletic supporters frequently.
    * Over-the-counter antifungal or drying powders can help control the infection. These contain medicine, such as miconazole, clotrimazole, terbinafine, or tolnaftate.

You may need treatment by a provider if your infection lasts longer than 2
weeks, is severe, or frequently returns. The provider may prescribe:

    * Stronger topical (applied to the skin) antifungal medicines or oral antifungal medicines
    * Antibiotics may be needed to treat bacterial infections that occur from scratching the area

If you tend to get jock itch, continue to apply antifungal or drying powders
after bathing, even when you do not have jock itch.

Jock itch is more common in overweight people with deep, moist skin folds.
Losing weight may help prevent the condition from coming back.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Jock itch usually responds promptly to treatment. It is often less severe than
other tinea infections, such as athlete's foot, but may last a long time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call yourÂ provider if jock itch does not respond to home care after 2 weeks
or you have other symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Fungal infection - groin; Infection - fungal - groin; Ringworm - groin; Tinea
cruris; Tinea of the groin

## Images

    * ![Fungus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9485t.jpg)Fungus

## References

Elewski BE, Hughey LC, Hunt KM, Hay RJ. Fungal diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 77.

Hay RJ. Dermatophytosis (ringworm) and other superficial mycoses. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 268.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tinea
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TineaInfections2_thumb.jpg)Tinea
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

