Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hivaids.html    
                                Description: HIV kills or damages the body&#39;s immune system cells. AIDS is the most advanced stage of infection. Learn more about the symptoms and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

HIV/AIDS

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hivaids.html

#  HIV/AIDS

Also called: Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, AIDS, HIV, Human
immunodeficiency virus

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Men
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by
destroying the white blood cells that fight infection. This puts you at risk
for serious infections and certain cancers. AIDS stands for acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final stage of infection with HIV. Not
everyone with HIV develops AIDS.

HIV most often spreads through unprotected sex with a person who has HIV. It
may also spread by sharing drug needles or through contact with the blood of a
person who has HIV. Women can give it to their babies during pregnancy or
childbirth.

The first signs of HIV infection may be swollen glands and flu-like symptoms.
These may come and go within two to four weeks. Severe symptoms may not appear
until months or years later.

A blood test can tell if you have HIV infection. Your health care provider can
do the test, or you can use a home testing kit. Or to find free testing sites,
call the national referral hotline at 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636 in
English and en espaÃ±ol; 1-888-232-6348 - TTY).

There is no cure, but there are many medicines that fight HIV infection and
lower the risk of infecting others. People who get early treatment can live
with the disease for a long time.

Strategies to reduce the risk of HIV infection include not having sex,
limiting your number of sexual partners, never sharing needles, and using
condoms the right way every time you have sex. People who are at high risk may
take HIV prevention medicines.

## Start Here

    * HIV / AIDS ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * HIV and AIDS: Know the Facts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Basics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV/AIDS (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * What Are HIV and AIDS? (AIDS.gov)

## Symptoms

    * Symptoms of HIV (AIDS.gov)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * CD4 Lymphocyte Count ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Get Tested for HIV ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion)
    * HIV Screening Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Testing (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Viral Load ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Information Regarding the OraQuick In-Home HIV Test (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Testing for HIV (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Understanding HIV Test Results (AIDS.gov)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * CDC Vital Signs: HIV and Injection Drug Use (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Risk and Prevention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Transmission (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * HIV: PrEP and PEP: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * What is a Preventive HIV Vaccine? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * HIV/AIDS Medicines: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Live Well (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Drug Use and Viral Infections (HIV, Hepatitis) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * HIV and Hepatitis B ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * HIV and Hepatitis C ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * HIV and Pulmonary Hypertension (Pulmonary Hypertension Association) \- PDF
    * HIV and Tuberculosis (TB) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Risk Among Persons Who Exchange Sex for Money or Nonmonetary Items (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Substance Use and HIV Risk (AIDS.gov)
    * Vaccinations for Adults with HIV Infection (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF

## Images

    * Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Primary Infection (Logical Images)

## Statistics and Research

    * Basic HIV/AIDS Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV among African American Gay and Bisexual Men (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV Among Asians (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV among Native Hawaiians and Other Pacific Islanders (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV among Transgender People (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * HIV and African Americans (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV and American Indians and Alaska Natives (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV in the United States and Dependent Areas (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV/AIDS Statistics Overview (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Microbicides (AIDS.gov)
    * The Science Is Clear: With HIV, Undetectable Equals Untransmittable ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * What is a Therapeutic HIV Vaccine? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: HIV Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: HIV/AIDS Vaccines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * HIV/AIDS Clinical Trials ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo)
    * HIV/AIDS Clinical Trials Fact Sheet ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Streptococcus pneumoniae colonization in pneumococcal vaccine-naÃ¯ve human immunodeficiency virus-exposed infected and...
    * Article: Age, absolute CD4 count, and CD4 percentage in relation to HPV...
    * Article: Kick and kill for HIV latency.
    * HIV/AIDS -- see more articles
    * HIV/AIDS prevention -- see more articles
    * HIV/AIDS vaccines -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * AIDSinfo Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * HIV Life Cycle ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * AIDSinfo ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish
    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * HIV.gov (AIDS.gov)
    * National Institutes of Health, Office of AIDS Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * NIAID Division of AIDS ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * State HIV/AIDS Hotlines & Online Resources (Greater Than AIDS)

## Children

    * HIV and AIDS (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * HIV and AIDS (Nemours Foundation)
    * How Do People Get AIDS? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * HIV among Gay and Bisexual Men (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Women

    * HIV/AIDS in Women: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * HIV Among People Aged 50 and Over (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * HIV, AIDS, and Older People ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * AIDS (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Asymptomatic HIV infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bloodborne pathogens (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Screening and diagnosis for HIV (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * T-cell count (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![HIV/AIDS](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDS.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * AIDS
    * Asymptomatic HIV infection
    * B and T cell screen
    * Bloodborne pathogens
    * Screening and diagnosis for HIV
    * T-cell count

## Related Health Topics

    * HIV/AIDS and Infections
    * HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy
    * HIV/AIDS in Women
    * HIV/AIDS Medicines
    * HIV: PrEP and PEP
    * Kaposi Sarcoma
    * Living with HIV/AIDS

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on HIV/AIDS is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _HIV/AIDS_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 October 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

