Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003217.htm    
                                Description: Itching is a tingling or irritation of the skin that makes you want to scratch the area. Itching may occur all over the body or only in one location.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Itching

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003217.htm

# Itching

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Itching is a tingling or irritation of the skin that makes you want to scratch
the area. Itching may occur all over the body or only in one location.

## Causes

There are many causes of itching, including:

    * Aging skin
    * Atopic dermatitis (eczema)
    * Contact dermatitis (poison ivy or poison oak)
    * Contact irritants (such as soaps, chemicals, or wool)
    * Dry skin
    * Hives
    * Insect bites and stings
    * Parasites such as pinworm, body lice, head lice, and pubic lice
    * Pityriasis rosea
    * Psoriasis
    * Rashes (may or may not itch)
    * Seborrheic dermatitis
    * Sunburn
    * Superficial skin infections such as folliculitis and impetigo

Generalized itching may be caused by:

    * Allergic reactions
    * Childhood infections (such as chickenpox or measles)
    * Hepatitis
    * Iron deficiency anemia
    * Kidney disease
    * Liver disease with jaundice
    * Pregnancy
    * Reactions to medicines and substances such as antibiotics (penicillin, sulfonamides), gold, griseofulvin, isoniazid, opiates, phenothiazines, or vitamin A
![Allergic reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19150.jpg)

## Home Care

For itching that does not go away or is severe, see your health care provider.

In the meantime, you can take steps to help deal with the itch:

    * Do not scratch or rub the itchy areas. Keep fingernails short to avoid damaging the skin from scratching. Family members or friends may be able to help by calling attention to your scratching.
    * Wear cool, light, loose bedclothes. Avoid wearing rough clothing, such as wool, over an itchy area.
    * Take lukewarm baths using little soap and rinse thoroughly. Try a skin-soothing oatmeal or cornstarch bath.
    * Apply a soothing lotion after bathing to soften and cool the skin.
    * Use moisturizer on the skin, especially in the dry winter months. Dry skin is a common cause of itching.
    * Apply cold compresses to an itchy area.
    * Avoid prolonged exposure to excessive heat and humidity.
    * Do activities that distract you from the itching during the day and make you tired enough to sleep at night.
    * Try over-the-counter oral antihistamines such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl). Be aware of possible side effects such as drowsiness.
    * Try over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream on itchy areas. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have itching that:

    * Is severe
    * Does not go away
    * Cannot be easily explained 

Also call if you have other, unexplained symptoms.

With most itching, you do not need to see a provider. Look for an obvious
cause of itching at home.

It is sometimes easy for a parent to find the cause of a child's itching.
Looking closely at the skin will help you identify any bites, stings, rashes,
dry skin, or irritation.

Have the itching checked out as soon as possible if it keeps returning and
does not have a clear cause, you have itching all over your body, or you have
hives that keep returning. Unexplained itching may be a symptom of a disease
that could be serious.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you. You'll also be asked about the itching.
Questions may include when it began, how long it has lasted, and whether you
have it all the time or only at certain times. You may also be asked about
medicines you take, whether you have allergies, or if you have been ill
recently.

## Alternative Names

Pruritus

## Images

    * ![Allergic reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19150t.jpg)Allergic reactions
    * ![Head lice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17207t.jpg)Head lice
    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Legat FJ, Weisshaar E, Fleischer AB, Bernhard JD, Cropley TG. Pruritus and
dysesthesia. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology._
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PicazÃ³n](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Itching2_thumb.jpg)Itching _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

