Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000888.htm    
                                Description: Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000888.htm

# Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's womb (uterus),
ovaries, or fallopian tubes.

## Causes

PID is an infection caused by bacteria. When bacteria from the vagina or
cervix travel to your womb, fallopian tubes, or ovaries, they can cause an
infection.

Most of the time, PID is caused by bacteria from chlamydia and gonorrhea.
These are sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Having unprotected sex with
someone who has an STI can cause PID.

Bacteria normally found in the cervix can also travel into the uterus and
fallopian tubes during a medical procedure such as:

    * Childbirth
    * Endometrial biopsy (removing a small piece of your womb lining to test for cancer)
    * Getting an intrauterine device (IUD)
    * Miscarriage
    * Abortion 

In the United States, nearly 1 million women have PID each year. About 1 in 8
sexually active girls will have PID before age 20.

You are more likely to get PID if:

    * You have a sex partner with gonorrhea or chlamydia.
    * You have sex with many different people.
    * You have had an STI in the past.
    * You have recently had PID.
    * You have contracted gonorrhea or chlamydia and have an IUD.
    * You have had sex before age 20. 

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of PID include:

    * Fever
    * Pain or tenderness in the pelvis, lower belly, or lower back
    * Fluid from your vagina that has an unusual color, texture, or smell

Other symptoms that may occur with PID:

    * Bleeding after intercourse
    * Chills
    * Being very tired
    * Pain when you urinate
    * Having to urinate often
    * Period cramps that hurt more than usual or last longer than usual
    * Unusual bleeding or spotting during your period
    * Not feeling hungry
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Skipping your period
    * Pain when you have intercourse

You can have PID and not have any severe symptoms. For example, chlamydia can
cause PID with no symptoms. Women who have an ectopic pregnancy or who are
infertile often have PID caused by chlamydia. An ectopic pregnancy is when an
egg grows outside of the uterus. It puts the mother's life in danger.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may do a pelvic exam to look for:

    * Bleeding from your cervix. The cervix is the opening to your uterus.
    * Fluid coming out of your cervix.
    * Pain when your cervix is touched.
    * Tenderness in your uterus, tubes, or ovaries.

You may have lab tests to check for signs of body-wide infection:

    * C-reactive protein (CRP)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * WBC count

Other tests include:

    * A swab taken of your vagina or cervix. This sample will be checked for gonorrhea, chlamydia, or other causes of PID.
    * Pelvic ultrasound or CT scan to see what else may be causing your symptoms. Appendicitis or pockets of infection around your tubes and ovaries, called tubo-ovarian abscess (TOA), may cause similar symptoms.
    * Pregnancy test.

## Treatment

Your provider will often have you start taking antibiotics while waiting for
your test results.

If you have mild PID:

    * Your provider will give you a shot containing an antibiotic.
    * You will be sent home with antibiotic pills to take for up to 2 weeks.
    * You will need to follow-up closely with your provider. 

If you have more severe PID:

    * You may need to stay in the hospital.
    * You may be given antibiotics through a vein (IV).
    * Later, you may be given antibiotic pills to take by mouth. 

There are many different antibiotics that can treat PID. Some are safe for
pregnant women. Which type you take depends on the cause of the infection. You
may receive a different treatment if you have gonorrhea or chlamydia.

Finishing the full course of antibiotics you've been given is extremely
important for treating PID. Scarring inside the womb from PID may lead to the
need to have surgery or undergo invitro ferilization (IVF) to become pregnant.
Follow up with your provider after you've finished the antibiotics to make
sure that you no longer have the bacteria in your body.

It's very important that you practice safe sex in order to reduce your risk of
getting infections, which could lead to PID.

If your PID is caused by an STI like gonorrhea or chlamydia, your sexual
partner must be treated as well.

    * If you have more than one sexual partner, they must all be treated.
    * If your partner is not treated, they can infect you again, or can infect other people in the future.
    * Both you and your partner must finish taking all of the prescribed antibiotics.
    * Use condoms until you both have finished taking antibiotics.

## Possible Complications

PID infections can cause scarring of the pelvic organs. This can lead to:

    * Long-term (chronic) pelvic pain
    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Infertility
    * Tubo-ovarian abscess 

If you have a serious infection that does not improve with antibiotics, you
may need surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of PID.
    * You think you have been exposed to an STI.
    * Treatment for a current STI does not seem to be working. 

## Prevention

Get prompt treatment for STIs.

You can help prevent PID by practicing safer sex.

    * The only absolute way to prevent an STI is to not have sex (abstinence).
    * You can reduce your risk by having a sexual relationship with only one person. This is called being monogamous.
    * Your risk will also be reduced if you and your sexual partners get tested for STIs before starting a sexual relationship.
    * Using a condom every time you have sex also reduces your risk. 

Here is how you can reduce your risk for PID:

    * Get regular STI screening tests.
    * If you are a new couple, get tested before starting to have sex. Testing can detect infections that are not causing symptoms.
    * If you are a sexually active woman age 24 or younger, get screened each year for chlamydia and gonorrhea.
    * All women with new sexual partners or multiple partners should also be screened. 

## Alternative Names

PID; Oophoritis; Salpingitis; Salpingo - oophoritis; Salpingo - peritonitis

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Endometritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17062t.jpg)Endometritis
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Jones HW. Gynecologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 70.

Lipsky AM, Hart D. Acute pelvic pain. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 30.

McKinzie J. Sexually transmitted diseases. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 88.

Smith RP. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's
Obstetrics & Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 155.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pelvic Inflammatory
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicInflammatoryDisease_thumb.jpg)Pelvic
Inflammatory Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

