Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000710.htm    
                                Description: You have just seen your health care provider for pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID refers to an infection of the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes, or ovaries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000710.htm

# Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have just seen your health care provider for pelvic inflammatory disease
(PID). PID refers to an infection of the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes, or
ovaries.

## Treating the Infection

To fully treat PID, you may need to take one or more antibiotics. Taking
antibiotic medicine will help clear the infection in about 2 weeks.

    * Take this medicine at the same time every day.
    * Take all the medicine you were prescribed, even if you feel better. The infection can come back if you do not take all of it.
    * DO NOT share antibiotics with others.
    * DO NOT take antibiotics that were prescribed for a different illness.
    * Ask if you should avoid any foods, alcohol, or other medications while taking antibiotics for PID. 

To prevent PID from coming back, your sexual partner must be treated as well.

    * If your partner is not treated, your partner can infect you again.
    * Both you and your partner must take all the antibiotics prescribed to you.
    * Use condoms until you both have finished taking antibiotics.
    * If you have more than one sexual partner, they must all be treated to avoid reinfection. 

## Side Effects of Treatment

Antibiotics can have side effects, including:

    * Nausea
    * Diarrhea
    * Stomach pain
    * Rash and itching
    * Vaginal yeast infection

Let your provider know if you experience any side effects. DO NOT cut back or
stop taking your medicine without taking with your doctor.

Antibiotics kill the bacteria that cause PID. But they also kill other types
of helpful bacteria in your body. This can cause diarrhea or vaginal yeast
infections in women.

Probiotics are small organisms found in yogurt and some supplements.
Probiotics are thought to help friendly bacteria grow in your gut. This may
help prevent diarrhea. However, studies are mixed about the benefits of
probiotics.

You can try eating yogurt with live cultures or taking supplements to help
prevent side effects. Be sure to tell your provider if you take any
supplements.

## Prevent Future Infections With Safe sex

The only sure way to prevent an STI is to not have sex (abstinence). But you
can reduce your risk of PID by:

    * Practicing safe sex
    * Having a sexual relationship with only one person
    * Using a condom every time you have sex 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of PID.
    * You think you have been exposed to an STI.
    * Treatment for a current STI does not seem to be working. 

## Alternative Names

PID - aftercare; Oophoritis - aftercare; Salpingitis - aftercare; Salpingo -
oophoritis - aftercare; Salpingo - peritonitis - aftercare; STD - PID
aftercare; Sexually transmitted disease - PID aftercare; GC - PID aftercare;
Gonococcal - PID aftercare; Chlamydia - PID aftercare

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy

## References

Richards DB, Paull BB. Pelvic inflammatory disease. In: Markovchick VJ, Pons
PT, Bakes KM, Buchanan JA, eds. _Emergency Medicine Secrets_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 77.

Smith RP. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's
Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 155.

Soper DE. Infections of the female pelvis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 111.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

