Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001569.htm    
                                Description: Measles is a very contagious (easily spread) illness caused by a virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Measles

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001569.htm

# Measles

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Measles is a very contagious (easily spread) illness caused by a virus.

## Causes

Measles is spread by contact with droplets from the nose, mouth, or throat of
an infected person. Sneezing and coughing can put contaminated droplets into
the air.

If one person has the measles, 90% of the people who come in contact with that
person will get the measles, unless they have been vaccinated.

People who had measles or who have been vaccinated against measles are
protected from the disease. As of 2000, measles had been eliminated in the
United States. However, unvaccinated people who travel to other countries
where measles is common have brought the disease back to the United States.
This has led to recent outbreaks of measles in groups of people who are
unvaccinated.

Some parents do not let their children get vaccinated. This is because of
unfounded fears that the MMR vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps,
and rubella, can cause autism. Parents and caregivers should know that:

    * Large studies of thousands of children have found no connection between this or any vaccine and autism.
    * Reviews by all major health organizations in the United States, Great Britain, and elsewhere all found NO LINK between the MMR vaccine and autism.
    * The study that had first reported a risk of autism from this vaccine has been proven to be fraudulent.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of measles usually begin 10 to 14 days after exposure to the virus.
This is called the incubation period.

Rash is often the main symptom. The rash:

    * Usually appears 3 to 5 days after the first signs of being sick
    * May last 4 to 7 days
    * Usually starts on the head and spreads to other areas, moving down the body
    * May appear as flat, discolored areas (macules) and solid, red, raised areas (papules) that later join together
    * Itches 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Bloodshot eyes
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Light sensitivity (photophobia)
    * Muscle pain
    * Red and inflamed eyes (conjunctivitis)
    * Runny nose
    * Sore throat
    * Tiny white spots inside the mouth (Koplik spots) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms.
The diagnosis can be made by looking at the rash and seeing Koplik spots in
the mouth. Sometimes measles can be hard to diagnose in which case blood tests
need to be done.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for the measles.

The following may relieve symptoms:

    * Acetaminophen (Tylenol)
    * Bed rest
    * Humidified air 

Some children may need vitamin A supplements, which reduce the risk of death
and complications in children who DO NOT get enough vitamin A.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Those who DO NOT have complications such as pneumonia do very well.

## Possible Complications

Complications of measles infection may include:

    * Irritation and swelling of the main passages that carry air to the lungs (bronchitis) 
    * Diarrhea
    * Irritation and swelling of the brain (encephalitis)
    * Ear infection (otitis media)
    * Pneumonia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has symptoms of measles.

## Prevention

Getting vaccinated is a very effective way to prevent measles. People who are
not immunized, or who have not received the full immunization, are at high
risk of catching the disease if they are exposed.

Taking serum immune globulin within 6 days after being exposed to the virus
can reduce the risk of developing measles or make the disease less severe.

## Alternative Names

Rubeola

## Images

    * ![Measles, Koplik spots - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2558t.jpg)Measles, Koplik spots - close-up
    * ![Measles on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2943t.jpg)Measles on the back
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Measles (rubeola).
www.cdc.gov/measles/index.html. Updated June 9, 2017. Accessed October 22,
2018.

Cherry JD, Lugo D. Measles virus. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 180.

Maldonado YA, Shetty AK. Rubeola virus: measles and subacute sclerosing
panencephalitis. In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer M, eds. _Principles and
Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 227.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Measles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Measles_thumb.jpg)Measles _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

