Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001419.htm    
                                Description: Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a progressive, disabling, and deadly brain disorder related to measles (rubeola) infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001419.htm

# Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a progressive, disabling, and
deadly brain disorder related to measles (rubeola) infection.

The disease develops many years after the measles infection.

## Causes

Normally, the measles virus does not cause brain damage. However, an abnormal
immune response to measles or, possibly, certain mutant forms of the virus may
cause severe illness and death. This response leads to brain inflammation
(swelling and irritation) that may last for years.

SSPE has been reported in all parts of the world, but in western countries it
is a rare disease.

Very few cases are seen in the United States since the nationwide measles
vaccination program began. SSPE tends to occur several years after a person
has measles, even though the person seems to have fully recovered from the
illness. Males are more often affected than females. The disease generally
occurs in children and adolescents.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of SSPE occur in four general stages. With each stage, the symptoms
are worse than the stage before:

    * Stage I: There may be personality changes, mood swings, or depression. Fever and headache may also be present. This stage may last up to 6 months.
    * Stage II: There may be uncontrolled movement problems including jerking and muscle spasms. Other symptoms that may occur in this stage are loss of vision, dementia, and seizures.
    * Stage III: Jerking movements are replaced by writhing (twisting) movements and rigidity. Death may occur from complications.
    * Stage IV: Areas of the brain that control breathing, heart rate, and blood pressure are damaged. This leads to coma and then death.

## Exams and Tests

There may be a history of measles in an unvaccinated child. A physical
examination may reveal:

    * Damage to the optic nerve, which is responsible for sight
    * Damage to the retina, the part of the eye that receives light
    * Muscle twitching
    * Poor performance on motor (movement) coordination tests 

The following tests may be performed:

    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * Brain MRI
    * Serum antibody titer to look for signs of previous measles infection
    * Spinal tap

## Treatment

No cure for SSPE exists. Treatment is generally aimed at controlling symptoms.
Certain antiviral drugs and drugs that boost the immune system may be tried to
slow the progression of the disease.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on SSPE:

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/All-Disorders/Subacute-Sclerosing-Panencephalitis-Information-Page
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/subacute-sclerosing-panencephalitis

## Outlook (Prognosis)

SSPE is always fatal. People with this disease die 1 to 3 years after
diagnosis. Some people may survive longer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has not completed their scheduled
vaccines. The measles vaccine is included in the MMR vaccine.

## Prevention

Immunization against measles is the only known prevention for SSPE. The
measles vaccine has been highly effective in reducing the numbers of affected
children.

Measles immunization should be done according to the recommended American
Academy of Pediatrics and Centers for Disease Control schedule.

## Alternative Names

SSPE; Subacute sclerosing leukoencephalitis; Dawson encephalitis; Measles -
SSPE; Rubeola - SSPE

## References

Gershon AA. Measles virus (rubeola). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 162.

Mason WH. Measles. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 246.

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Encephalitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Encephalitis_thumb.jpg)Encephalitis
_Read more_

![Measles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Measles_thumb.jpg)Measles _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

