Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000401.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis B and hepatitis C infections cause irritation (inflammation) and swelling of the liver. You should take steps to prevent catching or spreading these viruses since these infections can cause chronic    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preventing hepatitis B or C

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000401.htm

# Preventing hepatitis B or C

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis B and hepatitis C infections cause irritation (inflammation) and
swelling of the liver. You should take steps to prevent catching or spreading
these viruses since these infections can cause chronic liver disease.

## Vaccines

All children should get the hepatitis B vaccine.

    * Babies should get a first dose of the hepatitis B vaccine at birth. They should have all three shots in the series by age 6 to 18 months.
    * Infants born to mothers who have acute hepatitis B or have had the infection in the past should get a special hepatitis B vaccine within 12 hours of birth.
    * Children younger than age 19 who have not had the vaccine should get "catch-up" doses. 

Adults at high risk for hepatitis B should also be vaccinated, including:

    * Health care workers and those who live with someone who has hepatitis B
    * People with end-stage kidney disease, chronic liver disease, or HIV infection
    * People with multiple sex partners and men who have sex with other men
    * People who use recreational, injectable drugs 

There is no vaccine for hepatitis C.

## Lifestyle

Hepatitis B and C viruses are spread through contact with blood or bodily
fluids of a person with the virus. The viruses are not spread through casual
contact, such as holding hands, sharing eating utensils or drinking glasses,
breastfeeding, kissing, hugging, coughing, or sneezing.

To avoid coming in contact with blood or bodily fluids of others:

    * Avoid sharing personal items, such as razors or toothbrushes
    * DO NOT share drug needles or other drug equipment (such as straws for snorting drugs)
    * Clean blood spills with a solution containing 1 part household bleach to 9 parts water
    * Be careful when getting tattoos and body piercings 
    * Practice safe sex (especially for prevention of hepatitis B)

Safe sex means taking steps before and during sex that can prevent you from
getting an infection, or from giving an infection to your partner.

## Other steps you can take

Screening of all donated blood has reduced the chance of getting hepatitis B
and C from a blood transfusion. People newly diagnosed with hepatitis B
infection should be reported to state health care workers to track the
population's exposure to the virus.

The hepatitis B vaccine, or a hepatitis immune globulin (HBIG) shot, may help
prevent infection if it is received it within 24 hours of contact with the
virus.

## References

Kim DK, Hunter P. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Recommended
Immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):115-118. PMID: 30730868
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730868.

LeFevre ML; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for hepatitis B
virus infection in nonpregnant adolescents and adults: U.S. Preventive
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;161(1):58-66. PMID 24863637 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24863637.

Pawlotsky J-M. Chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2020:chap 140.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Romero JR, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices Recommended Immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2019. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):112-114. PMID: 30730870
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730870.

Wedemeyer H. Hepatitis C. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 80.

Wells JT, Perrillo R. Hepatitis B. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis C

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

