Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000279.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis B is irritation and swelling (inflammation) of the liver due to infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis B

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000279.htm

# Hepatitis B

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis B is irritation and swelling (inflammation) of the liver due to
infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV).

Other types of viral hepatitis include hepatitis A, hepatitis C, and hepatitis
D.

## Causes

Hepatitis B infection is caused by the HBV. You can catch hepatitis B through
contact with the blood or body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, and saliva) of a
person who has the virus.

Exposure may occur:

    * After a needlestick or sharps injury
    * If any blood or other body fluid touches your skin, eyes or mouth, or open sores or cutsÂ 

People who may be at risk for hepatitis B are those who:

    * Have unprotected sex with an infected partner
    * Receive blood transfusions (not common in the United States)
    * Have contact with blood at work (such as health care workers)
    * Have been on long-term kidney dialysis
    * Get a tattoo or acupuncture with unclean needles
    * Share needles during drug use
    * Share personal items (such as toothbrush, razor, and nail clippers) with a person who has the virus
    * Were born to a hepatitis-B infected mother 

All blood used for blood transfusions is screened, so the chance of getting
the virus in this way is very small.

## Symptoms

After you first become infected with the HBV:

    * You may have no symptoms.
    * You may feel sick for a period of days or weeks.
    * You may become very ill very quickly (called fulminant hepatitis). 

Symptoms of hepatitis B may not appear for up to 6 months after the time of
infection. Early symptoms include:

    * Appetite loss
    * Fatigue
    * Low fever
    * Muscle and joint aches
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Yellow skin and dark urine 

Symptoms will go away in a few weeks to months if your body is able to fight
off the infection. Some people never get rid of the HBV. This is called
chronic hepatitis B.

People with chronic hepatitis may not have symptoms and not know they are
infected. Over time, they may develop symptoms of liver damage and cirrhosis
of the liver.

You can spread the HBV to other people, even if you have no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

A series of blood tests called the hepatitis viral panel is done for suspected
hepatitis. It can help detect:

    * New infection
    * Older infection that is still active
    * Older infection that is no longer active 

The following tests are done to look for liver damage if you have chronic
hepatitis B:

    * Albumin level
    * Liver function tests
    * Prothrombin time

You will also have a test to measure the level of HBV in your blood (viral
load). This lets your health care provider know how your treatment is working.

People at higher risk for hepatitis should be screened with a blood test. This
may be needed even when they have no symptoms. Factors that lead to increased
risk include:

    * The risk factors described above in the _Causes_ section.
    * People from countries where a higher number of people have hepatitis B. These countries or areas include Japan, some Mediterranean countries, parts of Asia and the Middle East, West Africa and South Sudan. 

## Treatment

Acute hepatitis, unless severe, needs no treatment. Liver and other body
functions are watched using blood tests. You should get plenty of bed rest,
drink plenty of fluids, and eat healthy foods.

![Chronic hepatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17009.jpg)

Some people with chronic hepatitis may be treated with antiviral drugs. These
medicines can decrease or remove hepatitis B from the blood. One of the
medicines is an injection called interferon. They also help to reduce the risk
for cirrhosis and liver cancer.

It is not always clear which people with chronic hepatitis B should receive
drug therapy and when it should be started. You are more likely to receive
these medicines if:

    * Your liver function is quickly becoming worse.
    * You develop symptoms of long-term liver damage.
    * You have high levels of the HBV in your blood.
    * You are pregnant. 

For these medicines to work best, you need to take them as instructed by your
provider. Ask what side effects you can expect and what to do if you have
them. Not everybody who needs to take these medicines responds well.

If you develop liver failure, you may be considered for a liver transplant. A
liver transplant is the only cure in some cases of liver failure.

Other steps you can take:

    * Avoid alcohol.
    * Check with your provider before taking any over-the-counter medicines or herbal supplements. This includes medicines such as acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen. 

Severe liver damage, or cirrhosis, can be caused by hepatitis B.

## Support Groups

Some people benefit from attending a liver disease support group.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The acute illness most often goes away after 2 to 3 weeks. The liver most
often returns to normal within 4 to 6 months in most people.

Almost all newborns and about one half of children who get hepatitis B develop
the chronic condition. Very few adults who get the virus develop chronic
hepatitis B.

About 1 in 100 people who get hepatitis B dies from the condition.

There is a much higher rate of liver cancer in people who have chronic
hepatitis B.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of hepatitis B.
    * Hepatitis B symptoms do not go away in 2 to 3 weeks, or new symptoms develop.
    * You belong to a high-risk group for hepatitis B and have not had the HBV vaccine. 
![Hepatitis B](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9395.jpg)

## Prevention

Children and people at high risk for hepatitis B should get the hepatitis B
vaccine.

    * Babies should get a first dose of the hepatitis B vaccine at birth. They should have all 3 shots in the series by age 6 to 18 months.
    * Children younger than age 19 who have not had the vaccine should get "catch-up" doses.
    * Health care workers and those who live with someone who has hepatitis B should get the vaccine.
    * Infants born to mothers who have acute hepatitis B or have had the infection in the past should get a special hepatitis B vaccine within 12 hours of birth. 

The hepatitis B vaccine or a hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) shot may help
prevent infection if you receive it within 24 hours of contact with the virus.

Measures to avoid contact with blood and body fluids can help prevent the
spread of hepatitis B from person-to-person.

## Images

    * ![Hepatitis B virus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1031t.jpg)Hepatitis B virus
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Chronic hepatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17009t.jpg)Chronic hepatitis
    * ![Hepatitis B](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9395t.jpg)Hepatitis B

## References

Kim DK, Hunter P. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices Recommended
Immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):115-118. PMID: 30730868
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730868.

LeFevre ML; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for hepatitis B virus
infection in nonpregnant adolescents and adults: US Preventive Services Task
Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2014;161(1):58-66. PMID:
24863637 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24863637.

Pawlotsky J-M. Chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 140.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Romero JR, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices Recommended Immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2019. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):112-114. PMID: 30730870
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730870.

Terrault NA, Bzowej NH, Chang KM, Hwang JP, Jonas MM, Murad MH; American
Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. AASLD guidelines for treatment of
chronic hepatitis B. _Hepatology_. 2016;63(1):261-283. PMID: 26566064
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26566064.

Terrault NA, Lok ASF, McMahon BJ, Chang KM, et al. Update on prevention,
diagnosis, and treatment of chronic hepatitis B: AASLD 2018 hepatitis B
guidance. _Hepatology_. 2018;67(4):1560-1599. PMID: 29405329
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29405329.

Wells JT, Perrillo R. Hepatitis B. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 2/23/2018

Updated by: Jenifer K. Lehrer, MD, Department of Gastroenterology, Aria-
Jefferson Health Torresdale, Jefferson Digestive Diseases Network,
Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal
review and update on 01/17/2020 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis B](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisB2_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
B _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

