Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003558.htm    
                                Description: The hepatitis virus panel is a series of blood tests used to detect current or past infection by hepatitis A, hepatitis B, or hepatitis C. It can screen blood samples for more than one kind of hepatitis    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis virus panel

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003558.htm

# Hepatitis virus panel

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The hepatitis virus panel is a series of blood tests used to detect current or
past infection by hepatitis A, hepatitis B, or hepatitis C. It can screen
blood samples for more than one kind of hepatitis virus at the same time.

Antibody and antigen tests can detect each of the different hepatitis viruses.

Note: Hepatitis D only causes disease in people who also have hepatitis B. It
is not routinely checked on a hepatitis antibody panel.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is most often drawn from a vein from the inside of the elbow or the back
of the hand. The site is cleaned with germ-killing medicine (antiseptic). The
health care provider wraps an elastic band around the upper arm to apply
pressure to the area and make the vein swell with blood.

Next, the provider gently inserts a needle into the vein. The blood collects
into an airtight tube attached to the needle. The elastic band is removed from
your arm. Once the blood has been collected, the needle is removed. The
puncture site is covered to stop any bleeding.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin and make it bleed. The blood collects into a small glass
tube, or onto a slide or test strip. A bandage may be placed over the area if
there is any bleeding.

The blood sample is sent to a lab to be examined. Blood (serology) tests are
used to check for antibodies to each of the hepatitis viruses.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people feel moderate pain when the needle is inserted to draw blood.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, you may feel some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of hepatitis. It is used
to:

    * Detect current or previous hepatitis infection
    * Determine how contagious a person with hepatitis is
    * Monitor a person who is being treated for hepatitis 

The test may be performed for other conditions, such as:

    * Chronic persistent hepatitis
    * Hepatitis D (delta agent)
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Cryoglobulinemia
    * Porphyria cutanea tarda
    * Erythema multiforme and nodosum 

## Normal Results

A normal result means no hepatitis antibodies are found in the blood sample.
This is called a negative result.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly depending on the lab doing the test.
Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

There are different tests for hepatitis A and hepatitis B. A positive test is
considered abnormal.

A positive test may mean:

    * You currently have a hepatitis infection. This may be a new infection (acute hepatitis), or it may be an infection that you have had for a long time (chronic hepatitis).
    * You had a hepatitis infection in the past, but you no longer have the infection and can't spread it to others. 

Hepatitis A test results:

    * IgM anti-hepatitis A virus (HAV) antibodies, you have had a recent infection with hepatitis A
    * Total (IgM and IgG) antibodies to hepatitis A, you have a previous or past infection, or immunity to hepatitis A 

Hepatitis B test results:

    * Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg): you have an active hepatitis B infection, either recent or chronic (long-term)
    * Antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (Anti-HBc), you have a recent or past hepatitis B infection
    * Antibody to HBsAg (Anti-HBs): you have a past hepatitis B infection or you have received the hepatitis B vaccine and are unlikely to become infected
    * Hepatitis B type e antigen (HBeAg): you have a chronic hepatitis B infection and you are more likely to spread the infection to others through sexual contact or by sharing needles 

Antibodies to hepatitis C can most often be detected 4 to 10 weeks after you
get the infection. Other types of tests may be done to decide on treatment and
monitor the hepatitis C infection.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Hepatitis A antibody test; Hepatitis B antibody test; Hepatitis C antibody
test; Hepatitis D antibody test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Hepatitis B virus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1031t.jpg)Hepatitis B virus
    * ![Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1837t.jpg)Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands

## References

Pawlotsky J-M. Acute viral hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 148.

Pawlotsky J-M. Chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 149.

Pincus MR, Tierno PM, Gleeson E, Bowne WB, Bluth MH. Evaluation of liver
function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
21.

Wedemeyer H. Hepatitis C. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 80.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis A](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisA_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis A
_Read more_

![Hepatitis B](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisB2_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
B _Read more_

![Hepatitis C](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisC_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis C
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

