Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007671.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis B in children is swelling and inflamed tissue of the liver due to infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis B - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007671.htm

# Hepatitis B - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis B in children is swelling and inflamed tissue of the liver due to
infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV).

Other common hepatitis virus infections include hepatitis A and hepatitis C.

## Causes

HBV is found in the blood or body fluids (semen, tears, or saliva) of an
infected person. The virus is not present in the stool (feces).

A child can get HBV through contact with the blood or body fluids of a person
who has the virus. Exposure can occur from:

    * A mother with HBV at the time of birth. It does not appear that HBV is passed to the fetus while still in the mother's womb.
    * A bite from an infected person that breaks the skin.
    * Blood, saliva, or any other body fluid from an infected person that may touch a break or opening in a child's skin, eyes, or mouth.
    * Sharing personal items, such as a toothbrush, with a someone who has the virus.
    * Being stuck with a needle after use by an HBV-infected person.

A child cannot get hepatitis B from hugging, kissing, coughing, or sneezing.
Breastfeeding by a mother with hepatitis B is safe if the child is treated
properly at the time of birth.

Teenagers who are not vaccinated can get HBV during unprotected sex or drug
use.

## Symptoms

Most children with hepatitis B have none or only a few symptoms. Children
younger than 5 years rarely have symptoms of hepatitis B. Older children may
develop symptoms 3 to 4 months after the virus enters the body. The main
symptoms of a new or recent infection are:

    * Appetite loss
    * Fatigue
    * Low fever
    * Muscle and joint pain
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)
    * Dark urine

If the body is able to fight HBV, the symptoms end in a few weeks to 6 months.
This is called acute hepatitis B. Acute hepatitis B does not cause any lasting
problems.

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will perform blood tests called the
hepatitis viral panel. These tests can help diagnose:

    * A new infection (acute hepatitis B)
    * A chronic or long-term infection (chronic hepatitis B)
    * An infection that occurred in the past, but is no longer present

The following tests detect liver damage and the risk for liver cancer from
chronic hepatitis B:

    * Albumin level
    * Liver function tests
    * Prothrombin time
    * Liver biopsy
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Liver cancer tumor markers such as alpha fetoprotein

The provider will also check the viral load of HBV in the blood. This test
shows how well your child's treatment is working.  

## Treatment

Acute hepatitis B does not need any special treatment. Your child's immune
system will fight the disease. If there is no sign of the HBV infection after
6 months, then your child has recovered fully. However, while the virus is
present, your child can pass the virus to others. You should take steps to
help prevent the disease from spreading.

Chronic hepatitis B needs treatment. The goal of treatment is to relieve any
symptoms, prevent the disease from spreading, and help prevent liver disease.
Make sure that your child:

    * Gets plenty of rest
    * Drinks lots of fluids
    * Eats healthy foods 

Your child's provider also may recommend antiviral medicines. The medicines
decrease or remove HBV from the blood:

    * Interferon alpha-2b (Intron A) can be given to children age 1 year and older.
    * Lamivudine (Epivir) and entecavir (Baraclude) are used in children age 2 years and older.
    * Tenofovir (Viread) is given to children age 12 years and older. 

It is not always clear what medicines should be given. Children with chronic
hepatitis B may get these medicines when:

    * Liver function quickly gets worse
    * The liver shows signs of long-term damage
    * HBV level is high in the blood 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many children are able to rid their body of the HBV and do not have a long-
term infection.

However, some children never get rid of HBV. This is called chronic hepatitis
B infection.

    * Younger children are more prone to chronic hepatitis B.
    * These children do not feel sick, and lead a relatively healthy life. However, over time, they may develop symptoms of long-term (chronic) liver damage.

Almost all newborns and about half of children who get hepatitis B develop the
long-term (chronic) condition. A positive blood test after 6 months confirms
chronic hepatitis B. The disease will not affect your child's growth and
development. Regular monitoring plays an important role in managing the
disease in children.

You should also help your child learn how to avoid spreading the disease now
and into adulthood.

## Possible Complications

The possible complications of hepatitis B include:

    * Liver damage
    * Liver cirrhosis
    * Liver cancer

These complications generally occur during adulthood.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * Your child has symptoms of hepatitis B 
    * Hepatitis B symptoms do not go away
    * New symptoms develop
    * The child belongs to a high-risk group for hepatitis B and has not had the HBV vaccine

## Prevention

If a pregnant woman has acute or chronic hepatitis B, these steps are taken to
prevent the virus from being transmitted to a baby at birth:

    * Newborn babies should receive their first hepatitis B vaccine and one dose of immunoglobulins (IG) within 12 hours.
    * The baby should complete all hepatitis B vaccines as recommended during the first six months.
    * Some pregnant women may receive drugs to lower the level of HBV in their blood.

To prevent hepatitis B infection:

    * Children should get the first dose of hepatitis B vaccine at birth. They should have all 3 shots in the series by age 6 months.
    * Children who have not had the vaccine should get "catch-up" doses.
    * Children should avoid contact with blood and body fluids.
    * Children should not share toothbrushes or any other items that may be infected.
    * All women should be screened for HBV during pregnancy.
    * Mothers with an HBV infection can breastfeed their child after immunization.

## Alternative Names

Silent infection - HBV children; Antivirals - hepatitis B children; HBV
children; Pregnancy - hepatitis B children; Maternal transmission - hepatitis
B children

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Vaccine information
statements: hepatitis B. www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-
statements/hep-b.html. Updated October 18, 2016. Accessed March 15, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Vaccine information
statements: your baby's first vaccines. www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-
statements/multi.html. Updated October 18, 2016. Accessed March 15, 2018.

Jensen MK, Balistreri WF. Viral hepatitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 358.

Pham YH, Leung DH. Hepatitis B and D viruses. In: Cherry J, Harrison GJ,
Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of
Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
157.

Robinson CL, Romero JR, Kempe A, Pellegrini C, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee
on Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2018. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2018;67(5):156-157. PMID: 29420458
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29420458.

Terrault NA, Bzowej NH, Chang KM, Hwang JP, Jonas MM, Murad MH. AASLD
guidelines for treatment of chronic hepatitis B. 2015. _Hepatology._
2016;63(1):261-283. PMID: 265660644 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26566064.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis B](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisB2_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
B _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

