Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000319.htm    
                                Description: The first fever a baby or infant has is often scary for parents. Most fevers are harmless and are caused by mild infections. Overdressing a child may even cause a rise in temperature.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When your baby or infant has a fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000319.htm

# When your baby or infant has a fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The first fever a baby or infant has is often scary for parents. Most fevers
are harmless and are caused by mild infections. Overdressing a child may even
cause a rise in temperature.

Regardless, you should report any fever in a newborn that is higher than
100.4Â°F (38Â°C) (taken rectally) to the child's health care provider.

## What to Expect at Home

Fever is an important part of the body's defense against infection. Many older
infants develop high fevers with even minor illnesses.

Febrile seizures occur in some children and can be scary to parents. However,
most febrile seizures are over quickly. These seizures do not mean your child
has epilepsy, and do not cause any lasting harm.

## Eating and Drinking

Your child should drink plenty of fluids.

    * DO NOT give your child too much fruit or apple juice. Dilute these drinks by making them half water and half juice.
    * Popsicles or gelatin (Jell-O) are good choices, especially if the child is vomiting. 

Children can eat foods when they have a fever. But DO NOT force them to eat.

Children who are ill often tolerate bland foods better. A bland diet includes
foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber. You may try:

    * Breads, crackers, and pastas made with refined white flour
    * Refined hot cereals, such as oatmeal or cream of wheat 

## Treating Your Child's Fever

DO NOT bundle up a child with blankets or extra clothes, even if the child has
the chills. This may keep the fever from coming down, or make it go higher.

    * Try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket for sleep.
    * The room should be comfortable, not too hot or too cool. If the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help. 

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help lower fever in
children. Your child's doctor may tell you to use both types of medicine.

    * In children under 3 months of age, call your child's provider first before giving them medicines.
    * Know how much your child weighs. Then always check the instructions on the package.
    * Take acetaminophen every 4 to 6 hours.
    * Take ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours. DO NOT use ibuprofen in children younger than 6 months old.
    * DO NOT give aspirin to children unless your child's provider tells you it is OK. 

A fever does not need to come all the way down to normal. Most children will
feel better when their temperature drops by even one degree.

A lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool a fever.

    * Lukewarm baths work better if the child also gets medicine. Otherwise, the temperature might bounce right back up.
    * DO NOT use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs. These often make the situation worse by causing shivering. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to your child's health care provider or go to the emergency room when:

    * Your child does not act alert or more comfortable when their fever goes down
    * Fever symptoms come back after they had gone away
    * The child does not make tears when crying
    * Your child does not have wet diapers or has not urinated in the past 8 hours 

Also, talk to your child's provider or go to the emergency room if your child:

    * Is younger than age 3 months and has a rectal temperature of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Is 3 to 12 months old and has a fever of 102.2Â°F (39Â°C) or higher
    * Is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 48 hours
    * Has a fever over 105Â°F (40.5Â°C), unless the fever comes down readily with treatment and the child is comfortable
    * Has had fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they are not very high.
    * Has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, or a cough.
    * Has a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell anemia, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis
    * Recently had an immunization 

Call 9-1-1 if your child has a fever and:

    * Is crying and cannot be calmed down
    * Cannot be awakened easily or at all
    * Seems confused
    * Cannot walk
    * Has difficulty breathing, even after their nose is cleared
    * Has blue lips, tongue, or nails
    * Has a very bad headache
    * Has a stiff neck
    * Refuses to move an arm or leg
    * Has a seizure
    * Has a new rash or bruises appear 

## Alternative Names

Fever - infant; Fever - baby

## References

Mick NW. Pediatric fever. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 166.

Nield LS, Kamat D. Fever. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 176.

## Read More

    * Acute respiratory distress syndrome
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Flu
    * H1N1 influenza (Swine flu)
    * Immune response
    * Stuffy or runny nose - children

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Common Infant and Newborn Problems
    * Fever

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

