Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001561.htm    
                                Description: Pertussis is a highly contagious bacterial disease that causes uncontrollable, violent coughing. The coughing can make it hard to breathe. A deep &quot;whooping&quot; sound is often heard when the person tries to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pertussis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001561.htm

# Pertussis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pertussis is a highly contagious bacterial disease that causes uncontrollable,
violent coughing. The coughing can make it hard to breathe. A deep "whooping"
sound is often heard when the person tries to take a breath.

## Causes

Pertussis, or whooping cough, is an upper respiratory infection. It is caused
by the _Bordetella pertussis_ bacteria. It is a serious disease that can
affect people of any age and cause permanent disability in infants, and even
death.

When an infected person sneezes or coughs, tiny droplets containing the
bacteria move through the air. The disease is easily spread from person to
person.

The symptoms of infection often lasts 6 weeks, but it can last as long as 10
weeks.

## Symptoms

Initial symptoms are similar to the common cold. In most cases, they develop
about a week after exposure to the bacteria.

Severe episodes of coughing start about 10 to 12 days later. In infants and
young children, the coughing sometimes ends with a "whoop" noise. The sound is
produced when the person tries to take a breath. The whoop noise is rare in
infants under 6 months of age and in older children or adults.

Coughing spells may lead to vomiting or a short loss of consciousness.
Pertussis should always be considered when vomiting occurs with coughing. In
infants, choking spells and long pauses in breathing are common.

Other pertussis symptoms include:

    * Runny nose
    * Slight fever, 102Â°F (38.9Â°C) or lower
    * Diarrhea

## Exams and Tests

The initial diagnosis is most often based on the symptoms. However, when the
symptoms are not obvious, pertussis may be hard to diagnose. In very young
infants, the symptoms may be caused by pneumonia instead.

To know for sure, the health care provider may take a sample of mucus from the
nasal secretions. The sample is sent to a lab and tested for pertussis. While
this can offer an accurate diagnosis, the test takes some time. Most of the
time, treatment is started before the results are ready.

Some people may have a complete blood count that shows large numbers of
lymphocytes.

## Treatment

If started early enough, antibiotics such as erythromycin can make the
symptoms go away more quickly. Unfortunately, most people are diagnosed too
late, when antibiotics aren't very effective. However, the medicines can help
reduce the person's ability to spread the disease to others.

Infants younger than 18 months need constant supervision because their
breathing may temporarily stop during coughing spells. Infants with severe
cases should be hospitalized.

An oxygen tent with high humidity may be used.

Fluids may be given through a vein if coughing spells are severe enough to
prevent the person from drinking enough fluids.

Sedatives (medicines to make you sleepy) may be prescribed for young children.

Cough mixtures, expectorants, and suppressants are most often not helpful.
These medicines should NOT be used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In older children, the outlook is most often very good. Infants have the
highest risk for death, and need careful monitoring.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Pneumonia
    * Convulsions
    * Seizure disorder (permanent)
    * Nosebleeds
    * Ear infections
    * Brain damage from lack of oxygen
    * Bleeding in the brain (cerebral hemorrhage)
    * Intellectual disability
    * Slowed or stopped breathing (apnea)
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child develops symptoms of pertussis.

Call 911 or get to an emergency room if the person has any of the following
symptoms:

    * Bluish skin color, which indicates a lack of oxygen 
    * Periods of stopped breathing (apnea) 
    * Seizures or convulsions
    * High fever
    * Persistent vomiting
    * Dehydration

## Prevention

DTaP vaccination, one of the recommended childhood immunizations, protects
children against pertussis infection. DTaP vaccine can be safely given to
infants. Five DTaP vaccines are recommended. They are most often given to
children at ages 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, 15 to 18 months, and 4 to 6
years.

The TdaP vaccine should be given at age 11 or 12.

During a pertussis outbreak, unimmunized children under age 7 should not
attend school or public gatherings. They should also be isolated from anyone
known or suspected to be infected. This should last until 14 days after the
last reported case.

It is also recommended that adults age 19 and older receive 1 dose of the TdaP
vaccine against pertussis.

TdaP is especially important for health care professionals and anyone having
close contact with a baby younger than 12 months old.

Pregnant women should get a dose of TdaP during every pregnancy between 27 and
36 weeks of pregnancy, to protect the newborn from pertussis.

## Alternative Names

Whooping cough

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system overview](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9828t.jpg)Respiratory system overview

## References

Kim DK, Hunter P. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended
immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):115-118. PMID: 30730868
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730868.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Romero JR, Szilagyi P; Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP) Child/Adolescent Immunization Work Group.
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule
for children and adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):112-114. PMID: 30730870
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730870.

Souder E, Long SS. Pertussis ( _Bordetella pertussis and Bordetella
parapertussis_ ). In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC,
Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 224.

United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Vaccine
information statement: Tdap vaccine (tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis).
www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-statements/tdap.pdf. Updated February 24,
2015. Accessed September 5, 2019.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Whooping
Cough](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WhoopingCough_thumb.jpg)Whooping Cough
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

