Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000476.htm    
                                Description: Enterococcus is a germ (bacteria). It normally lives in the intestines and in the female genital tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vancomycin-resistant enterococci - hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000476.htm

# Vancomycin-resistant enterococci - hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enterococcus is a germ (bacteria). It normally lives in the intestines and in
the female genital tract.

Most of the time, it does not cause problems. But enterococcus can cause an
infection if it gets into the urinary tract, bloodstream, or skin wounds.

Vancomycin is an antibiotic that is often used to treat these infections.
Antibiotics are medicines that are used to kill bacteria.

Enterococcus germs can become resistant to vancomycin and therefore are not
killed. These resistant bacteria are called vancomycin-resistant enterococci
(VRE). VRE can be hard to treat because there are fewer antibiotics that can
fight the bacteria. Most VRE infections occur in hospitals.

## Who is Most at Risk for VRE?

VRE infections are more common in people who:

    * Are in the hospital,Â and they are taking antibiotics for a long time
    * Are older
    * Have long-term illnesses or weak immune systems
    * Have been treated before with vancomycin, or other antibiotics for a long time
    * Have been in intensive care units (ICUs)
    * Have been in cancer or transplant units
    * Have had major surgery
    * Have catheters to drain urine or intravenous (IV) catheters that stay in for a long time 

## Preventing the Spread of VRE in the Hospital

VRE can get onto the hands by touching a person who has VRE or by touching a
surface that is contaminated with VRE. The bacteria then spread from one
person to another by touch.

The best way to prevent the spread of VRE is for everyone to keep their hands
clean.

    * Hospital staff and health care providers must wash with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer before and after caring for every patient.
    * Patients should wash their hands if they move around the room or the hospital.
    * Visitors also need to take steps to prevent spreading germs.

Urinary catheters or IV tubing are changed on a regular basis to minimize the
risk of VRE infections.

Patients infected with VRE may be placed in a single room or be in a semi-
private room with another patient with VRE. This prevents the spread of germs
among hospital staff, other patients, and visitors. Staff and providers may
need to:

    * Use proper garments, such as gowns and gloves when entering an infected patient's room
    * Wear a mask when there is a chance of splashing bodily fluids

## Treating VRE Infections

Often, other antibiotics besides vancomycin can be used to treat most VRE
infections. Lab tests will tell which antibiotics will kill the germ.

Patients with the enterococcus germ who do not have symptoms of an infection
DO NOT need treatment.

## Alternative Names

Super-bugs; VRE; Gastroenteritis - VRE; Colitis - VRE; Hospital acquired
infection - VRE

## Images

    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Arias CA, Murray BE. _Enterococcus_ species, _Streptococcus gallolyticus_
group, and _Leuconostoc_ species. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 202.

Perl TM. Enterococcal infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 291.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Antibiotic Resistance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

