Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007743.htm    
                                Description:  Acute flaccid myelitis is a rare condition that affects the nervous system. Inflammation of the gray matter in the spinal cord leads to muscle weakness and paralysis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute flaccid myelitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007743.htm

# Acute flaccid myelitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute flaccid myelitis is a rare condition that affects the nervous system.
Inflammation of the gray matter in the spinal cord leads to muscle weakness
and paralysis.

Acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) is usually caused by infection with a virus.
While AFM is rare, there has been a slight increase in cases of AFM since
2014. Most new cases have occurred in children or young adults.

## Causes

AFM usually occurs after a cold, fever, or gastrointestinal illness.

Different kinds of viruses may be the cause of AFM. These include:

    * Enteroviruses (poliovirus and non-poliovirus)
    * West Nile virus and similar viruses such as Japanese encephalitis virus and Saint Louis encephalitis virus
    * Adenoviruses

It is unclear why certain viruses trigger AFM, or why some people develop the
condition and others don't.

Environmental toxins also can cause AFM. In many cases, a cause is never
found.

## Symptoms

A fever or a respiratory illness is often present before weakness and other
symptoms begin.

AFM symptoms often start with sudden muscle weakness and loss of reflexes in
an arm or leg. Symptoms may progress rapidly over a few hours to days. Other
symptoms may include:

    * Facial droop or weakness
    * Drooping eyelids
    * Difficulty moving the eyes
    * Slurred speech or difficulty swallowing

Some people may have:

    * Stiffness in the neck
    * Pain in the arms or legs
    * Inability to pass urine

Severe symptoms include:

    * Respiratory failure, when muscles involved in breathing become weak
    * Serious nervous system problems, which may lead to death

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take your medical history and vaccination
history to know if you are up-to-date with your polio vaccines. Unvaccinated
individuals who are exposed to poliovirus are at higher risk for acute flaccid
myelitis. Your provider also may want to know if within the last 4 weeks you
have:

    * Traveled
    * Had a cold or the flu or a stomach bug
    * Had a feverÂ 100Â°F (38Â°C) or higher

Your provider will do a physical exam. Tests that may be done include:

    * MRI of spine and MRI of the brain to view lesions in the gray matter
    * Nerve conduction velocity test
    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis to check if white blood cells are elevated

Your provider also may take stool, blood, and saliva samples to test.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for AFM. You may be referred to a doctor
specializing in disorders of the nerves and nervous system (neurologist). The
doctor will likely treat your symptoms.

A number of medicines and treatments that work on the immune system have been
tried but have not been found to help.

You may need physical therapy to help restore muscle function.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The long-term outlook of AFM is not known.

## Possible Complications

Complications of AFM include:

    * Muscle weakness and paralysis
    * Loss of limb function

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider right away if you or your child have:

    * Sudden weakness in the arms or legs or difficulty moving the head or face
    * Any other symptom of AFM

## Prevention

There is no clear way to prevent AFM. Having a polio vaccine may help reduce
the risk of AFM related to the poliovirus.

Take these steps to help avoid viral infection:

    * Wash hands frequently with soap and water, especially before eating.
    * Avoid close contact with people who have a viral infection.
    * Use mosquito repellants when going outdoors to prevent mosquito bites.

To learn more and get recent updates, go to the CDC webpage about acute
flaccid myelitis at www.cdc.gov/acute-flaccid-myelitis/index.html.

## Alternative Names

Acute flaccid myelitis; AFM; Polio-like syndrome; Acute flaccid paralysis;
Acute flaccid paralysis with anterior myelitis; Anterior myelitis; Enterovirus
D68; Enterovirus A71

## Images

    * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23212t.jpg)MRI scans
    * ![CSF chemistry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9239t.jpg)CSF chemistry
    * ![Electromyography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9741t.jpg)Electromyography

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Acute flaccid myelitis.
www.cdc.gov/acute-flaccid-myelitis/index.html. Updated October 22, 2018.
Accessed October 30, 2018.

Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center website. Acute flaccid myelitis.
US Department of Health and Human Services. National Institute of Health.
rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/13142/acute-flaccid-myelitis. Updated
October 9, 2018. Accessed October 30, 2018

Messacar K, Modlin JF, Abzug MJ. Enteroviruses and parechoviruses. In: Long
SS, Prober CG, Fischer M eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 236.

Messacar K, Schreiner TL, Van Haren K, et al. Acute flaccid myelitis: A
clinical review of US cases 2012-2015. _Ann Neurol_. 2016;80(3):326-338. PMID:
27422805 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27422805.

Strober JB, Glaser CA. Parainfectious and postinfectious neurologic syndromes.
In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer M eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

## Review Date 11/2/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteFlaccidMyelitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Flaccid Myelitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

