Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001047.htm    
                                Description: Ludwig angina is an infection of the floor of the mouth under the tongue. It is due to a bacterial infection of the teeth or jaw.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ludwig angina

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001047.htm

# Ludwig angina

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ludwig angina is an infection of the floor of the mouth under the tongue. It
is due to a bacterial infection of the teeth or jaw.

## Causes

Ludwig angina is a type of bacterial infection that occurs in the floor of the
mouth, under the tongue. It often develops after an infection of the roots of
the teeth (such as tooth abscess) or a mouth injury.

This condition is uncommon in children.

## Symptoms

The infected area swells quickly. This may block the airway or prevent you
from swallowing saliva.

Symptoms include:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Drooling
    * Unusual speech (sounds like the person has a "hot potato" in the mouth)
    * Tongue swelling or protrusion of the tongue out of the mouth
    * Fever
    * Neck pain
    * Neck swelling
    * Redness of the neck

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Weakness, fatigue, excess tiredness
    * Confusion or other mental changes
    * Earache

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do an exam of your neck and head to look for
redness and swelling of the upper neck, under the chin.

The swelling may reach to the floor of the mouth. Your tongue may be swollen
or pushed up to top of your mouth.

You may need a CT scan.

A sample of the fluid from the tissue may be sent to the lab to test for
bacteria.

## Treatment

If the swelling blocks the airway, you need to get emergency medical help
right away. A breathing tube may needed to be placed through your mouth or
nose and into the lungs to restore breathing. You may need to have surgery
called a tracheostomy that creates an opening through the neck into the
windpipe.

Antibiotics are given to fight the infection. They are most often given
through a vein until symptoms go away. Antibiotics taken by mouth may be
continued until tests show that the bacteria have gone away.

Dental treatment may be needed for tooth infections that cause Ludwig angina.

Surgery may be needed to drain fluids that are causing the swelling.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Ludwig angina can be life threatening. It can be cured with getting treatment
to keep the airways open and taking antibiotic medicine.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Airway blockage
    * Generalized infection (sepsis)
    * Septic shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Breathing difficulty is an emergency situation. Go to the emergency room or
call your local emergency number (such as 911) right away.

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this condition, or if symptoms do
not get better after treatment.

## Prevention

Visit the dentist for regular checkups.

Treat symptoms of mouth or tooth infection right away.

## Alternative Names

Submandibular space infection; Sublingual space infection

## Images

    * ![Oropharynx](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9555t.jpg)Oropharynx

## References

Christian JM, Goddard AC, Gillespie MB. Deep neck and odontogenic infections.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 10.

Hupp WS. Diseases of the mouth. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:969-975.

Melio FR. Upper respiratory tract infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 65.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cellulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cellulitis2_thumb.jpg)Cellulitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

