Link: https://medlineplus.gov/multiplemyeloma.html    
                                Description: Multiple myeloma is a cancer that begins in plasma cells, a type of white blood cell. Discover symptoms, diagnostic tests, and treatments for myeloma.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Multiple Myeloma

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/multiplemyeloma.html

#  Multiple Myeloma

Also called: Plasma-cell myeloma

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Multiple myeloma is a cancer that begins in plasma cells, a type of white
blood cell. These cells are part of your immune system, which helps protect
the body from germs and other harmful substances. In time, myeloma cells
collect in the bone marrow and in the solid parts of bones.

No one knows the exact causes of multiple myeloma, but it is more common in
older people and African Americans. It can run in families. Common symptoms
may include

    * Bone pain, often in the back or ribs
    * Fractures (broken bones)
    * Weakness or fatigue
    * Weight loss
    * Frequent infections and fevers
    * Feeling very thirsty
    * Frequent urination

Doctors diagnose multiple myeloma using lab tests, imaging tests, and a bone
marrow biopsy. Your treatment depends on how advanced the disease is and
whether you have symptoms. If you have no symptoms, you may not need treatment
right away. If you have symptoms, you may have chemotherapy, stem cell
transplantation, radiation, or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs
or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal
cells.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * General Information about Plasma Cell Neoplasms (Including Multiple Myeloma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Multiple Myeloma (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Multiple Myeloma Overview (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Multiple Myeloma: Patient Handbook (International Myeloma Foundation) \- PDF
    * Myeloma (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) \- PDF
    * What Is Multiple Myeloma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Multiple Myeloma Symptoms (Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Beta 2 Microglobulin (B2M) Tumor Marker Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Blood Count Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Bone Marrow Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Can Multiple Myeloma Be Found Early? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Free Light Chains ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Immunofixation (IFE) Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Plasma Cell Neoplasms (Including Multiple Myeloma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Tests to Find Multiple Myeloma (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Tumor Marker Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding Your Test Results (International Myeloma Foundation) \- PDF

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood-Forming Stem Cell Transplants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Drugs Approved for Multiple Myeloma and Other Plasma Cell Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Integrative Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Therapies (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Thalidomide (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Plasma Cell Neoplasms Including Multiple Myeloma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Plasma Cell Neoplasms (Including Multiple Myeloma) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Living With

    * What Happens After Treatment for Multiple Myeloma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Amyloidosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Do We Know What Causes Multiple Myeloma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance (MGUS) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * What Are the Risk Factors for Multiple Myeloma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Should You Ask Your Doctor about Multiple Myeloma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: multiple myeloma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Myeloma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Pomalidomide Plus Low-Dose Dexamethasone Improves Survival for Patients with Multiple Myeloma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Multiple Myeloma? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Multiple Myeloma Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Multiple Myeloma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Plasmacytoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The effectiveness and safety of lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with...
    * Article: A comparative effectiveness study of lipegfilgrastim in multiple myeloma patients after...
    * Article: A review on tumor heterogeneity and evolution in multiple myeloma: pathological,...
    * Multiple Myeloma -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * International Myeloma Foundation
    * Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Bence-Jones protein - quantitative (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Multiple myeloma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Protein electrophoresis - serum (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Serum globulin electrophoresis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Multiple Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * 24-hour urine protein
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * B and T cell screen
    * Bence-Jones protein - quantitative
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Immunoelectrophoresis - blood
    * Immunoelectrophoresis - urine
    * Immunofixation - blood
    * Immunofixation - urine
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Protein electrophoresis - serum
    * Quantitative nephelometry
    * Serum globulin electrophoresis
    * T-cell count

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Bone Marrow Diseases
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation
    * Lymphoma

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Multiple Myeloma is the National
Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 23 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

