Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000855.htm    
                                Description: Cellulitis is a common skin infection caused by bacteria. It affects the middle layer of the skin (dermis) and the tissues below. Sometimes, muscle can be affected.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cellulitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000855.htm

# Cellulitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cellulitis is a common skin infection caused by bacteria. It affects the
middle layer of the skin (dermis) and the tissues below. Sometimes, muscle can
be affected.

## Causes

Staphylococcus and streptococcus bacteria are the most common causes of
cellulitis.

Normal skin has many types of bacteria living on it. When there is a break in
the skin, these bacteria can cause a skin infection.

Risk factors for cellulitis include:

    * Cracks or peeling skin between the toes
    * History of peripheral vascular disease
    * Injury or trauma with a break in the skin (skin wounds)
    * Insect bites and stings, animal bites, or human bites
    * Ulcers from certain diseases, including diabetes and vascular disease
    * Use of corticosteroid medicines or other medicines that suppress the immune system
    * Wound from a recent surgery 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cellulitis include:

    * Fever with chills and sweating
    * Fatigue
    * Pain or tenderness in the affected area
    * Skin redness or inflammation that gets bigger as the infection spreads
    * Skin sore or rash that starts suddenly, and grows quickly in the first 24 hours
    * Tight, glossy, stretched appearance of the skin
    * Warm skin in the area of redness
    * Muscle aches and joint stiffness from swelling of the tissue over the joint
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal:

    * Redness, warmth, tenderness, and swelling of the skin
    * Possible drainage, if there is a buildup of pus (abscess) with the skin infection
    * Swollen glands (lymph nodes) near the affected area 

The provider may mark the edges of the redness with a pen, to see if the
redness goes past the marked border over the next several days.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood culture
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Culture of any fluid or material inside the affected area
    * A biopsy may be done if other conditions are suspected 

## Treatment

You will likely be prescribed antibiotics to be taken by mouth. You may be
given pain medicine as well, if needed.

At home, raise the infected area higher than your heart to reduce swelling and
speed up healing. Rest until your symptoms improve.

You may need to stay in a hospital if:

    * You are very sick (for example, you have a very high temperature, blood pressure problems, or nausea and vomiting that does not go away)
    * You have been on antibiotics and the infection is getting worse (spreading beyond the original pen marking)
    * Your immune system is not working well (due to cancer, HIV)
    * You have an infection around your eyes
    * You require antibiotics through a vein (IV) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cellulitis usually goes away after taking antibiotics for 7Â to 10 days.
Longer treatment may be needed if cellulitis is more severe. This may occur if
you have a chronic disease or your immune system is not working properly.

People with fungal infections of the feet may have cellulitis that keeps
coming back, especially if you have diabetes. Cracks in the skin from the
fungal infection allow the bacteria to get into the skin.

## Possible Complications

The following may result if cellulitis isn't treated or treatment doesn't
work:

    * Blood infection (sepsis)
    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Inflammation of the lymph vessels (lymphangitis)
    * Inflammation of the heart (endocarditis)
    * Infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord (meningitis)
    * Shock
    * Tissue death (gangrene) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if:

    * You have symptoms of cellulitis
    * You are being treated for cellulitis and you develop new symptoms, such as persistent fever, drowsiness, lethargy, blistering over the cellulitis, or red streaks that spread 

## Prevention

Protect your skin by:

    * Keeping your skin moist with lotions or ointments to prevent cracking
    * Wearing shoes that fit well and provide enough room for your feet
    * Learning how to trim your nails to avoid harming the skin around them
    * Wearing appropriate protective equipment when participating in work or sports

Whenever you have a break in the skin:

    * Clean the break carefully with soap and water. Apply an antibiotic cream or ointment every day.
    * Cover with a bandage and change it every day until a scab forms.
    * Watch for redness, pain, drainage, or other signs of infection.

## Alternative Names

Skin infection - bacterial; Group A streptococcus - cellulitis; Staphylococcus
- cellulitis

## Images

    * ![Cellulitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2379t.jpg)Cellulitis
    * ![Cellulitis on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8743t.jpg)Cellulitis on the arm
    * ![Periorbital cellulitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17283t.jpg)Periorbital cellulitis

## References

Habif TP. Bacterial infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A
Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Heagerty AHM, Harper N. Cellulitis and erysipelas. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR,
Berth-Jones J, Coulson I, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:chap 40.

Pasternak MS, Swartz MN. Cellulitis, necrotizing fasciitis, and subcutaneous
tissue infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 95.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cellulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cellulitis2_thumb.jpg)Cellulitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

