Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001012.htm    
                                Description: Orbital cellulitis is an infection of the fat and muscles around the eye. It affects the eyelids, eyebrows, and cheeks. It may begin suddenly or be a result of an infection that gradually becomes worse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Orbital cellulitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001012.htm

# Orbital cellulitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Orbital cellulitis is an infection of the fat and muscles around the eye. It
affects the eyelids, eyebrows, and cheeks. It may begin suddenly or be a
result of an infection that gradually becomes worse.

## Causes

Orbital cellulitis is a dangerous infection, which can cause lasting problems.
Orbital cellulitis is different than periorbital cellulitis, which is an
infection of the eyelid or skin around the eye.

In children, it often starts out as a bacterial sinus infection from
_Haemophilus influenza._ The infection used to be more common in young
children, under the age of 7. It is now rare due to a vaccine that helps
prevent this infection.

The bacteria _Staphylococcus aureus_ , _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ , and beta-
hemolytic streptococci may also cause orbital cellulitis.

Orbital cellulitis infections in children may get worse very quickly and can
lead to blindness. Medical care is needed right away.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Painful swelling of upper and lower eyelid, and possibly the eyebrow and cheek
    * Bulging eyes
    * Decreased vision
    * Pain when moving the eye
    * Fever, often 102Â°F (38.8Â°C) or higher
    * General ill feeling
    * Difficult eye movements, perhaps with double vision
    * Shiny, red or purple eyelid 

## Exams and Tests

Tests commonly doneÂ include:

    * CBC (complete blood count)
    * Blood culture
    * Spinal tap in affected children who are very sick

Other tests may include:

    * X-ray of the sinuses and surrounding area
    * CT scan or MRI of the sinuses and orbit
    * Culture of eye and nose drainage
    * Throat culture

## Treatment

In most cases, aÂ hospital stay is needed. Treatment most often includes
antibiotics given through a vein. Surgery may be needed to drain the abscessÂ
or relieve pressure in the space around the eye.

An orbital cellulitis infection can get worse very quickly. A person with this
condition must be checked every few hours.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With prompt treatment, the person can recover fully.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Cavernous sinus thrombosis (formation of a blood clot in a cavity at the base of the brain)
    * Hearing loss
    * Septicemia or blood infection
    * Meningitis
    * Optic nerve damage and loss of vision

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Orbital cellulitis is a medical emergency that needs to be treated right away.
Call your health care provider if there are signs of eyelid swelling,
especially with a fever.

## Prevention

Getting scheduled HiB vaccine shots will prevent the infection in most
children. Young children who share a household with a person who has this
infection may need to take antibiotics to avoid getting sick.

Prompt treatment of a sinus or dental infection may prevent it from spreading
and becoming orbital cellulitis.

## Images

    * ![Eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9553t.jpg)Eye anatomy
    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1052t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism

## References

Bhatt A. Ocular infections. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach
WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

Durand ML. Periocular infections. Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. In:
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 118.

McNab AA. Orbital infection and inflammation. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.14.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Orbital
infections. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 634.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cellulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cellulitis2_thumb.jpg)Cellulitis
_Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

