Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000976.htm    
                                Description: Periorbital cellulitis is an infection of the eyelid or skin around the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Periorbital cellulitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000976.htm

# Periorbital cellulitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Periorbital cellulitis is an infection of the eyelid or skin around the eye.

## Causes

Periorbital cellulitis can occur at any age, but commonly affects children
under 18 months old.

This infection can occur after a scratch, injury, or bug bite around the eye,
which allows germs to enter the wound. It can also extend from a nearby site
that is infected, such as the sinuses.

Periorbital cellulitis is different than orbital cellulitis, which is an
infection of the fat and muscles around the eye. Orbital cellulitis is a
dangerous infection, which can cause lasting problems.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Redness around the eye or in the white part of the eye
    * Swelling of the eyelid, whites of eyes, and surrounding area 

This condition does not often affect vision or cause eye pain.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the eye and ask about the symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood culture
    * Blood tests (complete blood count)
    * CT scan
    * MRI scan

## Treatment

Antibiotics are given by mouth, by shots, or through a vein (intravenously;
IV) to help fight the infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Periorbital cellulitis almost always improves with treatment. In rare cases,
the infection spreads into the eye socket, resulting in orbital cellulitis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if:

    * The eye becomes red or swollen
    * Symptoms get worse after treatment
    * Fever develops along with eye symptoms
    * It is difficult or painful to move the eye
    * The eye looks like it is sticking (bulging) out
    * There are vision changes

## Alternative Names

Preseptal cellulitis

## Images

    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1052t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism
    * ![Periorbital cellulitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17283t.jpg)Periorbital cellulitis
    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2930t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism

## References

Durand ML. Periocular infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 118.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Orbital
infections. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 634.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cellulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cellulitis2_thumb.jpg)Cellulitis
_Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

