Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001614.htm    
                                Description: Cat-scratch disease is an infection with bartonella bacteria that is believed to be transmitted by cat scratches, cat bites, or flea bites.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cat-scratch disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001614.htm

# Cat-scratch disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cat-scratch disease is an infection with bartonella bacteria that is believed
to be transmitted by cat scratches, cat bites, or flea bites.

## Causes

Cat-scratch disease is caused by the bacteriaÂ _Bartonella henselae_. The
disease is spread through contact with an infected cat (a bite or scratch) or
exposure to cat fleas. It also can be spread through contact with cat saliva
on broken skin or mucosal surfaces like those in the nose, mouth, and eyes.

## Symptoms

A person who has had contact with an infected cat may show common symptoms,
including:

    * Bump (papule) or blister (pustule) at site of injury (usually the first sign)
    * Fatigue
    * Fever (in some people)
    * Headache
    * Lymph node swelling (lymphadenopathy) near the site of the scratch or bite
    * Overall discomfort (malaise) 

Less common symptoms may include:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Sore throat
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

If you have swollen lymph nodes and a scratch or bite from a cat, your health
care provider may suspect cat-scratch disease.

A physical examination may also reveal an enlarged spleen.

Sometimes, an infected lymph node may form a tunnel (fistula) through the skin
and drain (leak fluid).

This disease is often not found because it is hard to diagnose. The
_Bartonella henselaeÂ_ immunofluorescence assayÂ (IFA) blood test is an
accurate way to detect the infection caused by these bacteria. The results of
this test must be considered along with other information from your medical
history, lab tests, or biopsy.

A lymph node biopsy may also be done to look for other causes of swollen
glands.

## Treatment

Generally, cat-scratch disease is not serious. Medical treatment may not be
needed. In some cases, treatment with antibiotics such as azithromycin can be
helpful. Other antibiotics may be used, including clarithromycin, rifampin,
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, or ciprofloxacin.

In people withÂ HIV/AIDSÂ and others, who have a weakened immune system, cat-
scratch disease is more serious. Treatment with antibiotics is recommended.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have a healthy immune system should recover fully without
treatment. In people with a weakened immune system, treatment with antibiotics
usually leads to recovery.

## Possible Complications

People whose immune systems are weakened may develop complications such as:

    * Encephalopathy (loss of brain function)
    * Neuroretinitis (inflammation of the retina and optic nerve of the eye)
    * Osteomyelitis (bone infection)
    * Parinaud syndrome (red, irritated, and painful eye) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have enlarged lymph nodes and you have been exposed
to a cat.

## Prevention

To prevent cat-scratch disease:

    * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after playing with your cat. Especially wash any bites or scratches.
    * Play gently with cats so they don't scratch and bite.
    * Don't allow a cat to lick your skin, eyes, mouth, or open wounds or scratches.
    * Use flea control measures to lower the risk your cat develops the disease.
    * Don't handle feral cats. 

## Alternative Names

CSD; Cat-scratch fever; Bartonellosis

## Images

    * ![Cat scratch disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8989t.jpg)Cat scratch disease
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Rolain JM, Raoult D. _Bartonella_ infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 299.

Rose SR, Koehler JE. _Bartonella_ , including cat-scratch disease. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 234.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cat Scratch
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CatScratchDisease_thumb.jpg)Cat
Scratch Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

