Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007670.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis A in children is swelling and inflamed tissue of the liver due to the hepatitis A virus (HAV). Hepatitis A is the most common type of hepatitis in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis A - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007670.htm

# Hepatitis A - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis A in children is swelling and inflamed tissue of the liver due to
the hepatitis A virus (HAV). Hepatitis A is the most common type of hepatitis
in children.

## Causes

HAV is found in the stool (feces) and blood of an infected child.

A child can catch hepatitis A by:

    * Coming in contact with the blood or stool of a person who has the disease.
    * Eating or drinking food or water that has been contaminated by blood or stools containing the HAV. Fruits, vegetables, shellfish, ice, and water are common sources of the disease.
    * Eating food prepared by someone with the disease who does not wash their hands after using the bathroom.
    * Being lifted or carried by someone with the disease who does not wash their hands after using the bathroom.
    * Traveling to another country without being vaccinated for hepatitis A. 

Children can get hepatitis A at day care center from other children or from
child care workers who have the virus and do not practice good hygiene.

Other common hepatitis virus infections include hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
Hepatitis A is typically the least serious and mildest of these diseases.

## Symptoms

Most children age 6 years and younger do not have any symptoms. This means
that your child could have the disease, and you may not know it. This can make
it easy to spread the disease among young children.

When symptoms occur, they appear about 2 to 6 weeks after infection. The child
may have flu-like symptoms, or the symptomsÂ may be mild. Severe or fulminant
hepatitis (liver failure) is rare in healthy children. The symptoms are often
easy to manage and include:

    * Dark urine
    * Tiredness
    * Loss of appetite
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pale stools
    * Abdominal pain (over the liver)
    * Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam of your child. This is
done to check for pain and swelling in the liver.

The provider will perform a blood test to look for:

    * Raised antibodies (proteins that fight infection) due to HAV
    * Elevated liver enzymes due to liver damage or inflammation 

## Treatment

There is no drug treatment for hepatitis A. Your child's immune system will
fight the virus. Managing the symptoms can help your child feel better while
recovering:

    * Have your child rest when symptoms are the worst.
    * DO NOT give acetaminophen to your child without first talking with your child's provider. It can be toxic because the liver is already weak.
    * Give your child fluids in the form of fruit juices or electrolyte solutions, such as Pedialyte. This helps prevent dehydration. 

While rare, symptoms may be severe enough that children with HAV need extra
fluids through a vein (IV).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

HAV does not remain in a child's body after the infection is gone. As a
result, it does not cause a long-term infection in the liver.

Rarely, a new case can cause severe liver failure that develops rapidly.

## Possible Complications

The possible complications of hepatitis A in children can be:

    * Liver damage
    * Liver cirrhosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your child's provider if your child has symptoms of hepatitis A.

Also contactÂ the providerÂ if your child has:

    * Dry mouth due to loss of fluids
    * No tears while crying
    * Swelling in the arms, hands, feet, stomach, or face
    * Blood in stools  

## Prevention

You can protect your child from hepatitis A by having your child vaccinated.

    * The hepatitis A vaccine is recommended for all children between their first and second birthdays (ages 12 to 23 months).
    * You and your child should be vaccinated if you are traveling to countries where outbreaks of the disease occur.
    * If your child has been exposed to hepatitis A, speak to your child's doctor regarding the possible need for treatment with immunoglobulin therapy.

If your child attends day care:

    * Make sure the children and staff at the day care center have had their hepatitis A vaccine.
    * Inspect the area where diapers are changed to ensure that proper hygiene is followed.

If your child gets hepatitis A, you can take these steps to help prevent the
disease from spreading to other children or adults:

    * Thoroughly wash your hands before and after preparing food, before eating, and before giving food to your child.
    * Always wash your hands well after using the restroom, after changing your child's diaper, and if you come in contact with an infected person's blood, stools, or other body fluids.
    * Help your child learn good hygiene. Teach your child to washÂ his or herÂ hands before eating food and after using the bathroom.
    * Avoid eating infected food or drinking polluted water.

## Alternative Names

Viral hepatitis - children; Infectious hepatitis - children

## References

Jensen MK, Balistreri WF. Viral hepatitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 358.

Pham YH, Leung DH. Hepatitis A virus. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 168.

Robinson CL, Romero JR, Kempe A, Pellegrini C, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee
on Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2018. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2018;67(5):156-157. PMID: 29420458
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29420458.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis A](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisA_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis A
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

