Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000278.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis A is inflammation (irritation and swelling) of the liver from the hepatitis A virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis A

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000278.htm

# Hepatitis A

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis A is inflammation (irritation and swelling) of the liver from the
hepatitis A virus.

## Causes

The hepatitis A virus is found mostly in the stool and blood of an infected
person. The virus is present about 15 to 45 days before symptoms occur and
during the first week of illness.

You can catch hepatitis A if:

    * You eat or drink food or water that has been contaminated by stools (feces) containing the hepatitis A virus. Unpeeled and uncooked fruits and vegetables, shellfish, ice, and water are common sources of the disease.
    * You come in contact with the stool or blood of a person who currently has the disease.
    * A person with hepatitis A passes the virus to an object or food due to poor hand-washing after using the toilet.
    * You take part in sexual practices that involve oral-anal contact.

Not everyone has symptoms with hepatitis A infection. Therefore, many more
people are infected than are diagnosed or reported.

Risk factors include:

    * Overseas travel, especially to Asia, South or Central America, Africa and the Middle East
    * IV drug use
    * Living in a nursing home center
    * Working in a health care, food, or sewage industry
    * Eating raw shellfish such as oysters and clams

Other common hepatitis virus infections include hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
Hepatitis A is the least serious and mildest of these diseases.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often show up 2 to 6 weeks after being exposed to the hepatitis
A virus. They are most often mild, but may last for up to several months,
especially in adults.

Symptoms include:

    * Dark urine
    * Fatigue
    * Itching
    * Loss of appetite
    * Low-grade fever
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pale or clay-colored stools
    * Yellow skin (jaundice)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which may show that
your liver is enlarged and tender.

Blood tests may show:

    * Raised IgM and IgG antibodies to hepatitis A (IgM is usually positive before IgG)
    * IgM antibodies which appear during the acute infection
    * Elevated liver enzymes (liver function tests), especially transaminase enzyme levels

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for hepatitis A.

    * You should rest and stay well hydrated when the symptoms are the worst.
    * People with acute hepatitis should avoid alcohol and drugs that are toxic to the liver, including acetaminophen (Tylenol) during the acute illness and for several months after recovery.
    * Fatty foods may cause vomiting and are best avoided during the acute phase of the illness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The virus does not remain in the body after the infection is gone.

Most people with hepatitis A recover within 3 months. Nearly all people get
better within 6 months. There is no lasting damage once you've recovered.
Also, you can't get the disease again. There is a low risk for death. The risk
is higher among older adults and people with chronic liver disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of hepatitis.

## Prevention

The following tips can help reduce your risk of spreading or catching the
virus:

    * Always wash your hands well after using the restroom, and when you come in contact with an infected person's blood, stools, or other bodily fluid.
    * Avoid unclean food and water. 

The virus may spread more rapidly through day care centers and other places
where people are in close contact. Thorough hand washing before and after each
diaper change, before serving food, and after using the toilet may help
prevent such outbreaks.

Ask your provider about getting either immune globulin or the hepatitis A
vaccine if you are exposed to the disease and have not had hepatitis A or the
hepatitis A vaccine.

Common reasons for getting one or both of these treatments include:

    * You have hepatitis B or C or any form of chronic liver disease.
    * You live with someone who has hepatitis A.
    * You recently had sexual contact with someone who has hepatitis A.
    * You recently shared illegal drugs, either injected or noninjected, with someone who has hepatitis A.
    * You have had close personal contact over a period of time with someone who has hepatitis A.
    * You have eaten in a restaurant where food or food handlers were found to be infected or contaminated with hepatitis.
    * You are planning to travel to places where hepatitis A is common. 

Vaccines that protect against hepatitis A infection are available. The vaccine
begins to protect 4 weeks after you get the first dose. You will need to get a
booster shot 6 to 12 months later for long-term protection.

Travelers should take the following steps to protect against getting the
disease:

    * Avoid dairy products.
    * Avoid raw or undercooked meat and fish.
    * Beware of sliced fruit that may have been washed in unclean water. Travelers should peel all fresh fruits and vegetables themselves.
    * DO NOT buy food from street vendors.
    * Get vaccinated against hepatitis A (and possibly hepatitis B) if traveling to countries where outbreaks of the disease occur.
    * Use only carbonated bottled water for brushing teeth and drinking. (Remember that ice cubes can carry infection.)
    * If bottled water is not available, boiling water is the best way to get rid of hepatitis A. Bring the water to a full boil for at least 1 minute to make it safe to drink.
    * Heated food should be hot to the touch and eaten right away. 

## Alternative Names

Viral hepatitis; Infectious hepatitis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Hepatitis A](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18140t.jpg)Hepatitis A

## References

Freedman MS, Hunter P, Ault K, Kroger A. Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older
- United States, 2020. _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep._ 2020;69(5):133-135. PMID:
32027627 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32027627.

Pawlotsky J-M. Acute viral hepatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 139.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Poehling K, Romero JR, Szilagyi P. Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule for
children and adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2020. _MMWR
Morb Mortal Wkly Rep._ 2020;69(5):130-132. PMID: 32027628
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32027628.

Sjogren MH, Bassett JT. Hepatitis A. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 1/12/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis A](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisA_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis A
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

