Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000621.htm    
                                Description: Malaria is a parasitic disease that involves high fevers, shaking chills, flu-like symptoms, and anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malaria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000621.htm

# Malaria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malaria is a parasitic disease that involves high fevers, shaking chills, flu-
like symptoms, and anemia.

## Causes

Malaria is caused by a parasite. It is passed to humans by the bite of
infected anopheles mosquitoes. After infection, the parasites (called
sporozoites) travel through the bloodstream to the liver. There, they mature
and release another form of parasites, called merozoites. The parasites enter
the bloodstream and infect red blood cells.

The parasites multiply inside the red blood cells. The cells then break open
within 48 to 72 hours and infect more red blood cells. The first symptoms
usually occur 10 days to 4 weeks after infection, though they can appear as
early as 8 days or as long as a year after infection. The symptoms occur in
cycles of 48 to 72 hours.

Most symptoms are caused by:

    * The release of merozoites into the bloodstream 
    * Anemia resulting from the destruction of the red blood cells 
    * Large amounts of free hemoglobin being released into circulation after red blood cells break open 

Malaria can also be transmitted from a mother to her unborn baby
(congenitally) and by blood transfusions. Malaria can be carried by mosquitoes
in temperate climates, but the parasite disappears over the winter.

The disease is a major health problem in much of the tropics and subtropics.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that there are 300 to
500 million cases of malaria each year. More than 1 million people die of it.
Malaria is a major disease hazard for travelers to warm climates.

In some areas of the world, mosquitoes that carry malaria have developed
resistance to insecticides. In addition, the parasites have developed
resistance to some antibiotics. These conditions have made it hard to control
both the rate of infection and spread of this disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Anemia (condition in which the body doesnât have enough healthy red blood cells)
    * Bloody stools
    * Chills, fever, sweating
    * Coma
    * Convulsions
    * Headache
    * Jaundice
    * Muscle pain
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

During a physical examination, the health care provider may find an enlarged
liver or enlarged spleen.

Tests that are done include:

    * Rapid diagnostic tests, which are becoming more common because they are easier to use and require less training by laboratory technicians
    * Malaria blood smears taken at 6 to 12 hour intervals to confirm the diagnosis
    * A complete blood count (CBC) will identify anemia if it is present

## Treatment

Malaria, especially falciparum malaria, is a medical emergency that requires a
hospital stay. Chloroquine is often used as an anti-malarial medicine. But
chloroquine-resistant infections are common in some parts of the world.

Possible treatments for chloroquine-resistant infections include:

    * Artemisinin derivative combinations, including artemether and lumefantrine
    * Atovaquone-proguanil
    * Quinine-based regimen, in combination with doxycycline or clindamycin
    * Mefloquine, in combination with artesunate or doxycycline 

The choice of drug depends, in part, on where you got the infection.

Medical care, including fluids through a vein (IV) and other drugs and
breathing (respiratory) support may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome is expected to be good in most cases of malaria with treatment, but
poor in falciparum infection with complications.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from malaria include:

    * Brain infection (cerebritis)
    * Destruction of blood cells (hemolytic anemia)
    * Kidney failure
    * Liver failure
    * Meningitis
    * Respiratory failure from fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)
    * Rupture of the spleen leading to massive internal bleeding (hemorrhage) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop fever and headache after
visiting any foreign country.

## Prevention

Most people who live in areas where malaria is common have developed some
immunity to the disease. Visitors will not have immunity and should take
preventive medications.

It is important to see your health care provider well before your trip. This
is because treatment may need to begin as long as 2 weeks before travel to the
area, and continue for a month after you leave the area. Most travelers from
theÂ United StatesÂ who contract malaria fail to take the right precautions.

The types of anti-malarial drugs prescribed depend on the area you visit.
Travelers to South America, Africa, the Indian subcontinent, Asia, and the
South Pacific should take one of the following drugs: mefloquine, doxycycline,
chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine or atovaquone-proguanil. Even pregnant women
should consider taking preventive drugs because the risk to the fetus from the
drug is less than the risk of catching this infection.

Chloroquine has been the drug of choice for protecting against malaria. But
because of resistance, it is now only suggested for use in areas where
_Plasmodium vivax_ , _P oval_ , and _P malariae_ are present.

Falciparum malaria is becoming increasingly resistant to anti-malarial
medications Recommended drugs include mefloquine, atovaquone/proguanil
(Malarone), and doxycycline.

Prevent mosquito bites by:

    * Wearing protective clothing over your arms and legs
    * Using mosquito netting while sleeping
    * Using insect repellent

For information on malaria and preventive medications, visit the CDC website:
www.cdc.gov/malaria/travelers/index.html.

## Alternative Names

Quartan malaria; Falciparum malaria; Biduoterian fever; Blackwater fever;
Tertian malaria; Plasmodium

## Images

    * ![Malaria - microscopic view of cellular parasites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1213t.jpg)Malaria - microscopic view of cellular parasites
    * ![Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1246t.jpg)Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin
    * ![Mosquito egg raft](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1248t.jpg)Mosquito, egg raft
    * ![Mosquito - larvae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1249t.jpg)Mosquito - larvae
    * ![Mosquito, pupa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1250t.jpg)Mosquito, pupa
    * ![Malaria, microscopic view of cellular parasites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1464t.jpg)Malaria, microscopic view of cellular parasites
    * ![Malaria, photomicrograph of cellular parasites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1466t.jpg)Malaria, photomicrograph of cellular parasites
    * ![Malaria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17248t.jpg)Malaria

## References

Ansong D, Seydel KB, Taylor TE. Malaria. In: Ryan ET, Hill DR, Solomon T,
Aronson NE, Endy TP, eds. _Hunter's Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 101.

Fairhurst RM, Wellems TE. Malaria ( _plasmodium species_ ). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 274.

Freedman DO. Protection of travelers. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 318.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Malaria_thumb.jpg)Malaria _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

