Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000252.htm    
                                Description: Lyme disease is a bacterial infection that is spread through the bite of one of several types of ticks. The disease can cause symptoms including bull    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lyme disease - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000252.htm

# Lyme disease - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lyme disease is a bacterial infection that is spread through the bite of one
of several types of ticks. The disease can cause symptoms including bull's eye
rash, chills, fever, headache, fatigue, and muscle pain.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider about
Lyme disease.

## Questions

Where on my body am I most likely to get a tick bite?

    * How large are ticks and tick bites? If I have a tick bite, will I always get Lyme disease?
    * Can I get Lyme disease even if I never noticed a tick bite on my body?
    * What can I do to prevent getting tick bites when I am in a wooded or grassy area?
    * In what areas of the US am I more likely to get a tick bite or Lyme disease? At what time of the year is the risk higher?
    * Should I remove a tick if I find one on my body? What is the proper way to remove a tick? Should I save the tick? 

If I get Lyme disease from a tick bite, what symptoms will I have?

    * Will I always have symptoms soon after getting Lyme disease (early or primary Lyme disease)? Will these symptoms get better if I am treated with antibiotics?
    * If I do not get symptoms right away, can I get symptoms later? How much later? Are these symptoms the same as the early symptoms? Will these symptoms get better if I am treated with antibiotics?
    * If I am treated for Lyme disease, will I ever have symptoms again? If I do, will these symptoms get better if I am treated with antibiotics? 

How can my doctor diagnose me with Lyme disease? Can I be diagnosed even if I
do not remember having a tick bite?

What are the antibiotics used to treat Lyme disease? How long do I need to
take them? What are the side effects?

Will I have a full recovery from my Lyme disease symptoms?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about Lyme disease; Lyme borreliosis - questions;
Bannwarth syndrome - questions

## Images

    * ![Lyme disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17249t.jpg)Lyme disease
    * ![Tertiary Lyme disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17244t.jpg)Tertiary lyme disease

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Lyme disease.
www.cdc.gov/lyme. Updated January 19, 2018. Accessed September 5, 2018.

Steere AC. Lyme disease (Lyme Borreliosis) due to _Borrelia burgdorferi_. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 243.

Wormser GP. Lyme disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 321.

## Read More

    * Lyme disease
    * Lyme disease blood test

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Lyme Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

