Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001380.htm    
                                Description: Listeriosis is an infection that can occur when a person eats food that has been contaminated with bacteria called Listeria monocytogenes (L monocytogenes).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Listeriosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001380.htm

# Listeriosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Listeriosis is an infection that can occur when a person eats food that has
been contaminated with bacteria called _Listeria monocytogenes_ ( _L
monocytogenes_ ).

## Causes

The bacteria _L monocytogenes_ is found in wild animals, domesticated animals,
and in soil and water. These bacteria make many animals sick, leading to
miscarriage and stillbirth in domestic animals.

Vegetables, meats, and other foods can get infected with the bacteria if they
come in contact with contaminated soil or manure. Raw milk or products made
from raw milk may carry these bacteria.

If you eat the contaminated products, you may get sick. The following people
are at increased risk:

    * Adults over age 50
    * Adults with a weakened immune system
    * Developing fetuses
    * Newborns
    * Pregnancy 

The bacteria most often cause a gastrointestinal illness. In some cases, you
can develop a blood infection (septicemia) or inflammation of the covering of
the brain (meningitis). Infants and children often have meningitis.

Infection in early pregnancy may cause a miscarriage. The bacteria may cross
the placenta and infect the developing baby. Infections in late pregnancy may
lead to stillbirth or death of the infant within a few hours of birth. About
one half of infants infected at or near birth will die.

In adults, the disease may take many forms, depending on what organ or organ
systems are infected. It may occur as:

    * Heart infection (endocarditis)
    * Brain or spinal fluid infection (meningitis)
    * Lung infection (pneumonia)
    * Blood infection (septicemia)
    * Gastrointestinal infection (gastroenteritis) 

Or it may occur in a milder form as:

    * Abscesses
    * Conjunctivitis
    * Skin lesion

## Symptoms

In infants, symptoms of listeriosis may be seen in the first few days of life
and may include:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Lethargy
    * Jaundice
    * Respiratory distress (usually pneumonia)
    * Shock
    * Skin rash
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests may be done to detect the bacteria in amniotic fluid, blood,
feces, and urine. A spinal fluid (cerebrospnial fluid or CSF) culture will be
performed if a spinal tap is performed.

## Treatment

Antibiotics (including ampicillin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) are
prescribed to kill the bacteria.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Listeriosis in a fetus or infant is often fatal. Healthy older children and
adults are more likely to survive. The illness is less serious if it only
affects the gastrointestinal system. Brain or spinal infections have worse
outcomes.

## Possible Complications

Infants who survive listeriosis may have long-term brain and nervous system
(neurologic) damage and delayed development.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child develops symptoms of
listeriosis.

## Prevention

Foreign food products, such as nonpasteurized soft cheeses, have also led to
outbreaks of listeriosis. Always cook food thoroughly.

Wash your hands thoroughly after touching pets, farm animals, and handling
animal feces.

Pregnant women may want to visit the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) website for information on food precautions:
www.cdc.gov/listeria/prevention.html.

## Alternative Names

Listerial infection; Granulomatosis infantisepticum; Fetal listeriosis

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Johnson JE, Mylonakis E. _Listeria monocytogenes_. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 206.

Kollman TR, Mailman TL, Bortolussi R. Listeriosis. In: Wilson CB, Nizet V,
Maldonado YA, Remington JS, Klein JO, eds. _Remington and Klein's Infectious
Diseases of the Fetus and Newborn Infant_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Listeria
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ListeriaInfections_thumb.jpg)Listeria
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

