Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001658.htm    
                                Description: Congenital rubella is a condition that occurs in an infant whose mother is infected with the virus that causes German measles. Congenital means the condition is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital rubella

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001658.htm

# Congenital rubella

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital rubella is a condition that occurs in an infant whose mother is
infected with the virus that causes German measles. Congenital means the
condition is present at birth.

## Causes

Congenital rubella occurs when the rubella virus in the mother affects the
developing baby in the first 3 months of pregnancy. After the fourth month, if
the mother has a rubella infection, it is less likely to harm the developing
baby.

The number of babies born with this condition is much smaller since the
rubella vaccine was developed.

Pregnant women and their unborn babies are at risk if:

    * They are not vaccinated for rubella
    * They have not had the disease in the past

## Symptoms

Symptoms in the infant may include:

    * Cloudy corneas or white appearance of pupil
    * Deafness
    * Developmental delay
    * Excessive sleepiness
    * Irritability
    * Low birth weight
    * Below average mental functioning (intellectual disability)
    * Seizures
    * Small head size
    * Skin rash at birth 

## Exams and Tests

The baby's health care provider will run blood and urine tests to check for
the virus.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for congenital rubella. The treatment is
symptom-based.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome for a child with congenital rubella depends on how severe the
problems are. Heart defects can often be corrected. Damage to the nervous
system is permanent.

## Possible Complications

Complications may involve many parts of the body.

EYES:

    * Clouding of the lens of the eye (cataracts)
    * Damage to the optic nerve (glaucoma)
    * Damage of the retina (retinopathy)

HEART:

    * A blood vessel that usually closes shortly after birth remains open (patent ductus arteriosus)
    * Narrowing of the large artery that delivers oxygen-rich blood to the heart (pulmonary artery stenosis)
    * Other heart defects 

CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM:

    * Intellectual disability
    * Difficulty with physical movement (motor disability)
    * Small head from poor brain development
    * Brain infection (encephalitis)
    * Infection of the spinal column and tissue around the brain (meningitis) 

OTHER:

    * Deafness
    * Low blood platelet count
    * Enlarged liver and spleen
    * Abnormal muscle tone
    * Bone disease 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have concerns about congenital rubella.
    * You are unsure if you have had the rubella vaccine.
    * You or your children need a rubella vaccine.

## Prevention

Vaccination prior to pregnancy can prevent this condition. Pregnant women who
have not had the vaccine should avoid contact with people who have the rubella
virus.

## Images

    * ![Rubella on an infant's back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1315t.jpg)Rubella on an infant's back
    * ![Rubella Syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17253t.jpg)Rubella syndrome

## References

Gershon AA. Rubella virus (German measles). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 152.

Mason WH, Gans HA. Rubella. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 274.

Reef SE. Rubella (German measles). In Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 344.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rubella](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rubella2_thumb.jpg)Rubella _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

