Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001574.htm    
                                Description: Rubella, also known as the German measles, is an infection in which there is a rash on the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rubella

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001574.htm

# Rubella

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rubella, also known as the German measles, is an infection in which there is a
rash on the skin.

Congenital rubella is when a pregnant woman with rubella passes it to the baby
that is still in her womb.

## Causes

Rubella is caused by a virus that is spread through the air or by close
contact.

A person with rubella may spread the disease to others from 1 week before the
rash begins, until 1 to 2 weeks after the rash disappears.

Because the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine is given to most children,
rubella is much less common now. Almost everyone who receives the vaccine has
immunity to rubella. Immunity means that your body has built a defense to the
rubella virus.

In some adults, the vaccine may wear off. This means they are not fully
protected. Women who may become pregnant and other adults may receive a
booster shot.

Children and adults who were never vaccinated against rubella may still get
this infection.

## Symptoms

Children generally have few symptoms. Adults may have a fever, headache,
general discomfort (malaise), and a runny nose before the rash appears. They
may not notice the symptoms.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Bruising (rare)
    * Inflammation of the eyes (bloodshot eyes)
    * Muscle or joint pain 

## Exams and Tests

A nasal or throat swab may be sent for culture.

A blood test can be done to see if a person is protected against rubella. All
women who may become pregnant should have this test. If the test is negative,
they will receive the vaccine.

## Treatment

There is no treatment for this disease.

Taking acetaminophen can help reduce fever.

Defects that occur with congenital rubella syndrome can be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Rubella is most often a mild infection.

After an infection, people have immunity to the disease for the rest of their
lives.

## Possible Complications

Complications can occur in the unborn baby if the mother becomes infected
during pregnancy. A miscarriage or stillbirth may occur. The child may be born
with birth defects.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You are a woman of childbearing age and are unsure of whether you have been vaccinated against rubella
    * You or your child develop a severe headache, stiff neck, earache, or vision problems during or after a case of rubella
    * You or your child need to receive MMR immunization (vaccine) 

## Prevention

There is a safe and effective vaccine to prevent rubella. The rubella vaccine
is recommended for all children. It is routinely given when children are 12 to
15 months old, but is sometimes given earlier during epidemics. A second
vaccination (booster) is routinely given to children ages 4 to 6. MMR is a
combination vaccine that protects against measles, mumps, and rubella.

Women of childbearing age most often have a blood test to see if they have
immunity to rubella. If they are not immune, women should avoid getting
pregnant for 28 days after receiving the vaccine.

Those who should not get vaccinated include:

    * Women who are pregnant.
    * Anyone whose immune system is affected by cancer, corticosteroid medicines, or radiation treatment.

Great care is taken not to give the vaccine to a woman who is already
pregnant. However, in the rare instances when pregnant women have been
vaccinated, no problems have been detected in the infants.

## Alternative Names

Three day measles; German measles

## Images

    * ![Rubella on an infant's back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1315t.jpg)Rubella on an infant's back
    * ![Rubella](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17251t.jpg)Rubella
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Mason WH, Gans HA. Rubella. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 274.

Michaels MG, Williams JV. Infectious diseases. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 13.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Romero JR, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee On
Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2019. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):112-114. PMID: 30730870
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730870.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rubella](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rubella2_thumb.jpg)Rubella _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

