Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000610.htm    
                                Description: Meningitis is present when the membranes covering of the brain and spinal cord become swollen and inflamed. This covering is called the meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gram-negative meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000610.htm

# Gram-negative meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningitis is present when the membranes covering of the brain and spinal cord
become swollen and inflamed. This covering is called the meninges.

Bacteria are one type of germ that may cause meningitis. Gram-negative
bacteria are a type of bacteria that behave in a similar manner in the body.
They turn pink when tested in the laboratory with a special stain called Gram
stain.

## Causes

Acute bacterial meningitis can be caused by different Gram-negative bacteria
including meningococcal and _H. influenzae_.

This article covers Gram-negative meningitis caused by the following bacteria:

    *  _Escherichia coli_
    *  _Klebsiella pneumoniae_
    *  _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
    *  _Serratia marsescens_

Gram-negative meningitis is more common in infants than adults. But it can
also occur in adults, especially those with one or more risk factors. Risk
factors in adults and children include:

    * Infection (especially in the abdomen or urinary tract)
    * Recent brain surgery
    * Recent injury to the head 
    * Spinal abnormalities
    * Spinal fluid shunt placement after brain surgery
    * Urinary tract abnormalities
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Weakened immune system

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually come on quickly, and may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Mental status changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Severe headache
    * Stiff neck (meningismus)
    * Symptoms of a bladder, kidney, intestine, or lung infection

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Agitation
    * Bulging fontanelles in infants
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Poor feeding or irritability in children
    * Rapid breathing
    * Unusual posture, with the head and neck arched backwards (opisthotonos)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Questions will focus on
symptoms and possible exposure to someone who might have the same symptoms,
such as a stiff neck and fever.

If the provider thinks meningitis is possible, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
will likely be done to remove a sample of spinal fluid for testing.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head
    * Gram stain, other special stains

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be started as soon as possible. Ceftriaxone, ceftazidime, and
cefepime are the most commonly used antibiotics for this type of meningitis.
Other antibiotics may be given, depending on the type of bacteria.

If you have a spinal shunt, it may be removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The earlier treatment is started, the better the outcome.

Many people recover completely. But, many people have permanent brain damage
or die of this type of meningitis. Young children and adults over age 50 have
the highest risk for death. How well you do depends on:

    * Your age
    * How soon treatment is started
    * Your overall health

## Possible Complications

Long-term complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Buildup of fluid between the skull and brain (subdural effusion)
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus)
    * Hearing loss
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you suspect meningitis in a young child who has the following symptoms:

    * Feeding problems
    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * Persistent unexplained fever

Call the local emergency number if you develop any of the serious symptoms
listed above. Meningitis can quickly become a life-threatening illness.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of related infections may reduce the risk of meningitis.

## Alternative Names

Gram-negative meningitis

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![CSF cell count](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9238t.jpg)CSF cell count

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Bacterial meningitis.
www.cdc.gov/meningitis/bacterial.html. Updated January 25, 2017. Accessed
October 8, 2018.

Nath A. Meningitis: bacterial, viral, and other. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 412.

Tunkel AR, Van de Beek D, Scheld WM. Acute meningitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

