

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Human Papillomavirus Vaccination for Adults: Updated Recommendations of the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices

_Weekly_ / August 16, 2019 / 68(32);698â702

Minus

Related Pages

Elissa Meites, MD1; Peter G. Szilagyi, MD2; Harrell W. Chesson, PhD3;
Elizabeth R. Unger, PhD, MD4; Jose R. Romero, MD5; Lauri E. Markowitz, MD1
(View author affiliations)

View suggested citation

###  **Summary**

**What is already known about this topic?**

Vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV) is routinely recommended at age
11 or 12 years. Catch-up recommendations apply to persons not vaccinated at
age 11 or 12 years.

**What is added by this report?**

After reviewing new evidence, CDC updated HPV vaccination recommendations for
U.S. adults.

**What are the implications for public health practice?**

Routine recommendations for HPV vaccination of adolescents have not changed.
Catch-up HPV vaccination is now recommended for all persons through age 26
years. For adults aged 27 through 45 years, public health benefit of HPV
vaccination in this age range is minimal; shared clinical decision-making is
recommended because some persons who are not adequately vaccinated might
benefit.

Article Metrics

##### Altmetric:

##### Citations:

##### Views:

_Views equals page views plus PDF downloads_

Metric Details

**Box**

**References**

Related Materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PDF pdf icon[94K] [PDF]

## Introduction

Vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV) is recommended to prevent new
HPV infections and HPV-associated diseases, including some cancers. The
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)* routinely recommends HPV
vaccination at age 11 or 12 years; vaccination can be given starting at age 9
years. Catch-up vaccination has been recommended since 2006 for females
through age 26 years, and since 2011 for males through age 21 years and
certain special populations through age 26 years. This report updates ACIP
catch-up HPV vaccination recommendations and guidance published in 2014, 2015,
and 2016 ( _1_ - _3_ ). Routine recommendations for vaccination of adolescents
have not changed. In June 2019, ACIP recommended catch-up HPV vaccination for
all persons through age 26 years. ACIP did not recommend catch-up vaccination
for all adults aged 27 through 45 years, but recognized that some persons who
are not adequately vaccinated might be at risk for new HPV infection and might
benefit from vaccination in this age range; therefore, ACIP recommended shared
clinical decision-making regarding potential HPV vaccination for these
persons.

Top

## Background

HPV is a common sexually transmitted infection, with HPV acquisition generally
occurring soon after first sexual activity ( _1_ ). Most HPV infections are
transient and asymptomatic. Persistent infections with high-risk (oncogenic)
HPV types can lead to development of cervical, anal, penile, vaginal, vulvar,
and oropharyngeal cancers, usually after several decades ( _1_ ). Most new HPV
infections occur in adolescents and young adults. Although most sexually
active adults have been exposed to HPV ( _4_ ), new infections can occur with
a new sex partner ( _5_ ).

Three prophylactic HPV vaccines are licensed for use in the United States:
9-valent (9vHPV, Gardasil 9, Merck), quadrivalent (4vHPV, Gardasil, Merck),
and bivalent (2vHPV, Cervarix, GlaxoSmithKline) ( _6_ - _8_ ). As of late
2016, only 9vHPV is distributed in the United States. The majority of HPV-
associated cancers are caused by HPV 16 or 18, types targeted by all three
vaccines. In addition, 4vHPV and 9vHPV target HPV 6 and 11, types that cause
anogenital warts. 9vHPV also protects against five additional high-risk types:
HPV 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58.

In October 2018, using results from 4vHPV clinical trials in women aged 24
through 45 years, and bridging immunogenicity and safety data in women and
men, the Food and Drug Administration expanded the approved age range for
9vHPV use from 9 through 26 years to 9 through 45 years in women and men ( _6_
). In June 2019, after reviewing evidence related to HPV vaccination of
adults, ACIP updated recommendations for catch-up vaccination and for
vaccination of adults older than the recommended catch-up age.

Top

## Methods

During April 2018-June 2019, the ACIP HPV Vaccines Work Group held at least
monthly conference calls to review and discuss relevant scientific evidence
regarding adult HPV vaccination using the Evidence to Recommendations
framework. (https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/recs/grade/downloads/ACIP-
evidence-rec-frame-508.pdfpdf icon). The Work Group evaluated the quality of
evidence for efficacy, safety, and effectiveness for HPV vaccination for
primary prevention of HPV infection and HPV-related disease using the Grading
of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach
(https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/recs/grade/about-grade.html).

Scientific literature published during January 1, 2006-October 18, 2018, was
searched to identify clinical trials of any licensed HPV vaccine in adults
aged 27 through 45 years. Detailed search methods and results for the GRADE
tables are available at https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/recs/grade/HPV-
adults.html. Benefits were based on per-protocol analyses of vaccine efficacy;
immunogenicity data were also considered. Harms were any vaccine-related
serious adverse events. Of 1,388 references identified, 100 were selected for
detailed review, and 16 publications were included in GRADE tables presented
at the October 2018 ACIP meeting; tables were updated in June 2019 to include
new results from a 9vHPV trial. At the June 2019 ACIP meeting, two policy
issues were considered: 1) harmonization of catch-up vaccination for all
persons through age 26 years, and 2) vaccination of adults aged >26 years. Two
Evidence to Recommendations documents were developed
(https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/recs/grade/HPV-harmonization-etr.html)
(https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/recs/grade/HPV-adults-etr.html) and
presented along with proposed recommendations; after a public comment period,
ACIP members voted unanimously to harmonize catch-up vaccination
recommendations across genders for all persons through age 26 years. ACIP
members also voted 10-4 in favor of shared clinical decision-making for adults
aged 27 through 45 years, recognizing that some persons who are not adequately
vaccinated might be at risk for new HPV infection and might benefit from
vaccination in this age range.

Top

## Summary of Key Findings

**Vaccine efficacy and safety.** Data were considered from 11 clinical trials
of 9vHPV, 4vHPV, and/or 2vHPV in adults aged 27 through 45 years, along with
supplemental bridging immunogenicity data. In per-protocol analyses from three
trials, 4vHPV and 2vHPV demonstrated significant efficacy against a combined
endpoint of persistent vaccine-type HPV infections, anogenital warts, and
cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade 1 (low-grade lesions) or worse.
In nine trials, seroconversion rates to vaccine-type HPV after 3 doses of any
HPV vaccine were 93.6%-100% at 7 months after the first dose. Overall evidence
on benefits was GRADE evidence level 2, for moderate-quality evidence. In nine
trials, few serious adverse events and no vaccine-related deaths were
reported. Overall evidence on harms was also GRADE evidence level 2, for
moderate-quality evidence. In the efficacy trial that was the basis for 9vHPV
licensure for adults through age 45 years, per-protocol efficacy of 4vHPV
among women aged 24 through 45 years was 88.7% (95% confidence interval [CI] =
78.1-94.8), and intention-to-treat efficacy was 47.2% (95% CI = 33.5-58.2)
against a combined endpoint of persistent infections, extragenital lesions,
and CIN 1+ related to HPV types 6, 11, 16, or 18 ( _9_ ).

**HPV burden of disease and impact of the vaccination program in the United
States.** Approximately 33,700 cancers are caused by HPV in the United States
each year, including 12,900 oropharyngeal cancers among men and women, 10,800
cervical cancers among women, and 6,000 anal cancers among men and women;
vaginal, vulvar, and penile cancers are less common ( _10_ ). HPV vaccination
for adolescents has been routinely recommended for females since 2006 and for
males since 2011 ( _1_ ). The existing HPV vaccination program for adolescents
has the potential to prevent the majority of these cancers. Mean age at
acquisition of causal HPV infection for cancers is unknown, but is estimated
to be decades before cancer is diagnosed. In 2017, coverage with ≥1 dose of
HPV vaccine was 65.5% among adolescents aged 13 through 17 years ( _11_ ).
Although coverage with the recommended number of doses remains below the
Healthy People 2020 target of 80% for adolescents ( _12_ ), the U.S. HPV
vaccination program has resulted in significant declines in prevalences of
vaccine-type HPV infections, anogenital warts, and cervical precancers ( _13_
). For example, prevalences of 4vHPV vaccine-type infection during 2013-2016,
compared with those of the prevaccine era, declined from 11.5% to 1.8% among
females aged 14 through 19 years and from 18.5% to 5.3% among females aged 20
through 24 years ( _14_ ). In addition, declines have been observed among
unvaccinated persons, suggesting protective herd effects ( _15_ ).

**Health economic analyses.** Five health economic models of HPV vaccination
in the United States were reviewed ( _16_ ). The cost effectiveness ratio for
the current HPV vaccination program ranged from cost-saving to approximately
$35,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained ( _16_ ). In the context
of the existing vaccination program, the incremental cost per QALY for
expanding male vaccination through age 26 years was $178,000 in a subset of
analyses in one of the five models reviewed using more favorable model
assumptions for adult vaccination ( _16_ ). In the context of the existing
program, expanding vaccination to adults through age 45 years would produce
relatively small additional health benefits and less favorable cost-
effectiveness ratios. The incremental cost per QALY for also vaccinating
adults through age 30 or 45 years exceeded $300,000 in four of five models (
_16_ ). Variation in results across models was likely due to uncertainties
about HPV natural history, such as prevalence of immunity after clearance of
natural infections, and level of herd protection from the existing program.
Under the existing program, in a subset of analyses in one of the five models
reviewed using more favorable model assumptions for adult vaccination, the
number needed to vaccinate (NNV) to prevent one case of anogenital warts, CIN
grade 2 or worse (high-grade lesions), or cancer would be 9, 22, and 202,
respectively. For expanding recommendations for males through age 26 years to
harmonize catch-up vaccination across genders, these NNV would be 40, 450, and
3,260, respectively. For expanding recommendations to include adults through
age 45 years, these NNV would be 120, 800, and 6,500, respectively ( _16_ ).

Top

## Rationale

Adolescents remain the most important focus of the HPV vaccination program in
the United States. Recommendations harmonized across genders will simplify the
immunization schedule and be more feasible to implement. HPV vaccination is
most effective when given before exposure to any HPV, as in early adolescence
( _1_ - _3_ ). Clinical trials have indicated that HPV vaccines are safe and
effective against infection and disease attributable to HPV vaccine types that
recipients are not infected with at the time of vaccination.

Because HPV acquisition generally occurs soon after first sexual activity,
vaccine effectiveness will be lower in older age groups because of prior
infections. Some previously exposed adults will have developed natural
immunity already. Exposure to HPV decreases among older age groups. Evidence
suggests that although HPV vaccination is safe for adults aged 27 through 45
years, population benefit would be minimal; nevertheless, some adults who are
not adequately vaccinated might be at risk for new HPV infection and might
benefit from vaccination in this age range.

Top

## Recommendations

**Children and adults aged 9 through 26 years.** HPV vaccination is routinely
recommended at age 11 or 12 years; vaccination can be given starting at age 9
years. Catch-up HPV vaccination is recommended for all persons through age 26
years who are not adequately vaccinated.†

**Adults aged >26 years.** Catch-up HPV vaccination is not recommended for all
adults aged >26 years. Instead, shared clinical decision-making regarding HPV
vaccination is recommended for some adults aged 27 through 45 years who are
not adequately vaccinated. (Box). HPV vaccines are not licensed for use in
adults aged >45 years.

**Administration.** Dosing schedules, intervals, and definitions of persons
considered adequately vaccinated have not changed ( _3_ ). **** No
prevaccination testing (e.g., Pap or HPV testing) is recommended to establish
the appropriateness of HPV vaccination.

**Cervical cancer screening.** Cervical cancer screening guidelines and
recommendations should be followed ( _17_ ).

**Special populations and medical conditions.** These recommendations for
children and adults aged 9 through 26 years and for adults aged >26 years
apply to all persons, regardless of behavioral or medical risk factors for HPV
infection or disease.§ For persons who are pregnant, HPV vaccination should be
delayed until after pregnancy; however, pregnancy testing is not needed before
vaccination. Persons who are breastfeeding or lactating can receive HPV
vaccine. Recommendations regarding HPV vaccination during pregnancy or
lactation have not changed ( _1_ ).

Top

## Future Research and Monitoring Priorities

CDC continues to monitor safety of HPV vaccines and impact of the vaccination
program on HPV-attributable outcomes, including prevalences of HPV infections,
anogenital warts, cervical precancers, and cancers. ACIP reviews relevant data
as they become available and updates vaccine policy as needed.

Top

### Acknowledgments

Members of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (member roster for
June 2019 is available at
https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/members/index.html).

### ACIP HPV Vaccines Work Group

Chair: Peter Szilagyi, University of California at Los Angeles. ACIP members:
Kevin Ault, University of Kansas Medical Center; Jose Romero, University of
Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Arkansas Children's Hospital. Ex Officio
Members: Joohee Lee, Jeff Roberts, Food and Drug Administration. Liaison
representatives: Shelley Deeks, National Advisory Committee on Immunization;
Linda Eckert, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; Sandra
Fryhofer, American College of Physicians; Amy Middleman, Society for
Adolescent Health and Medicine; Chris Nyquist, American Academy of Pediatrics;
Sean O'Leary, Pediatric Infectious Disease Society; Robin O'Meara, American
Academy of Family Physicians; Patricia Whitley-Williams, National Medical
Association; Jane Zucker, Association of Immunization Managers. Consultants:
Joseph Bocchini; Tamera Coyne-Beasley; John Douglas; Allison Kempe; Aimee
Kreimer, National Cancer Institute; Debbie Saslow, American Cancer Society;
Rodney Willoughby; Rachel Winer. CDC Lead: Lauri Markowitz. CDC contributors:
Harrell Chesson; Julianne Gee; Elissa Meites; Lakshmi Panagiotakopoulos;
Jeanne Santoli; Mona Saraiya; Shannon Stokley; John Su; Elizabeth Unger;
Charnetta Williams.

Top

Corresponding author: Elissa Meites, emeites@cdc.gov.

Top

* * *

1National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; 2University
of California at Los Angeles; 3National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD,
and TB Prevention, CDC; 4National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious
Diseases, CDC; 5University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

Top

All authors have completed and submitted the ICMJE form for disclosure of
potential conflicts of interest. No potential conflicts of interest were
disclosed.

Top

  

* Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in children, adolescents, and adults are developed by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). ACIP is chartered as a federal advisory committee to provide expert external advice and guidance to the Director of CDC on use of vaccines and related agents for the control of vaccine-preventable diseases in the civilian population of the United States. Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in children, adolescents, and adults are harmonized to the greatest extent possible with recommendations made by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in adults are harmonized with recommendations of AAFP, ACOG, the American College of Physicians (ACP), and the American College of Nurse-Midwives. ACIP recommendations approved by the CDC Director become agency guidelines on the date published in the _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. Additional information is available at https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip.

† For persons initiating vaccination before their 15th birthday, the
recommended immunization schedule is 2 doses of HPV vaccine (0, 6-12 month
schedule). For persons initiating vaccination on or after their 15th birthday,
or for persons with certain immunocompromising conditions, the recommended
immunization schedule is 3 doses of HPV vaccine (0, 1-2, 6 month schedule).

§ Persons with specific behavioral or medical risk factors for HPV infection
or disease include men who have sex with men, transgender persons, and persons
with immunocompromising conditions.

Top

## References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Markowitz LE, Dunne EF, Saraiya M, et al. Human papillomavirus vaccination: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No. RR-05).https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr6305a1.htm PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Petrosky E, Bocchini JA Jr, Hariri S, et al. . Use of 9-valent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine: updated HPV vaccination recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2015;64:300-4.https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6411a3.htm PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. Meites E, Kempe A, Markowitz LE. Use of a 2-dose schedule for human papillomavirus vaccination--updated recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2016;65:1405-8\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. Chesson HW, Dunne EF, Hariri S, Markowitz LE. The estimated lifetime probability of acquiring human papillomavirus in the United States. Sex Transm Dis 2014;41:660-4\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. Winer RL, Hughes JP, Feng Q, Stern JE, Xi LF, Koutsky LA. Incident detection of high-risk human papillomavirus infections in a cohort of high-risk women aged 25-65 years. J Infect Dis 2016;214:665-75\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6. Food and Drug Administration. Prescribing information [package insert]. Gardasil 9 (human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine, recombinant). Silver Spring, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration; 2018. https://www.fda.gov/media/90064/downloadexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7. Food and Drug Administration. Prescribing information [package insert]. Gardasil (human papillomavirus quadrivalent [types 6, 11, 16, and 18] vaccine, recombinant). Silver Spring, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration; 2015. https://www.fda.gov/media/74350/downloadexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. Food and Drug Administration. Prescribing information [package insert]. Cervarix (human papillomavirus bivalent [types 16 and 18] vaccine, recombinant). Silver Spring, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration; 2016. https://www.fda.gov/media/78013/downloadexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9. Castellsague X, Muñoz N, Pitisuttithum P, et al. End-of-study safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of quadrivalent HPV (types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant vaccine in adult women 24-45 years of age. Br J Cancer 2011;105:28-37\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10. CDC. Cancers associated with human papillomavirus, United States--2011-2015: U.S. cancer statistics, data briefs, no. 4. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Service, CDC; 2018. https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/uscs/about/data-briefs/no4-hpv-assoc-cancers-UnitedStates-2011-2015.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11. Walker TY, Elam-Evans LD, Yankey D, et al. National, regional, state, and selected local area vaccination coverage among adolescents aged 13-17 years--United States, 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:909-17\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12. US Department of Health and Human Services. Healthy people 2020: immunization and infectious diseases. Washington, DC: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2017. https://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/immunization-and-infectious-diseases/objectivesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13. Markowitz LE, Gee J, Chesson H, Stokley S. Ten years of human papillomavirus vaccination in the United States. Acad Pediatr 2018;18(2 Suppl):S3-10\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14. McClung NM, Lewis RM, Gargano JW, Querec T, Unger ER, Markowitz LE. Declines in vaccine-type human papillomavirus prevalence in females across racial/ethnic groups: data from a national survey. J Adolesc Health In press 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15. Oliver SE, Unger ER, Lewis R, et al. Prevalence of human papillomavirus among females after vaccine introduction--National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, United States, 2003-2014\. J Infect Dis 2017;216:594-603\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16. Chesson H. Overview of health economic models for HPV vaccination of mid-adults. Presented at the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices meeting, Atlanta, GA; June 26, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17. CDC. Cervical cancer screening guidelines for average-risk women. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Service, CDC; 2018. https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/cervical/pdf/guidelines.pdfpdf icon

Top

##### ![Return to your place in the text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)
**BOX.  ** **Considerations for shared clinical decision-making regarding
human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination of adults aged 27 through 45 years**



Ideally, HPV vaccination should be given in early adolescence because
vaccination is most effective before exposure to HPV through sexual activity.
For adults aged 27 through 45 years who are not adequately vaccinated,*
clinicians can consider discussing HPV vaccination with persons who are most
likely to benefit. HPV vaccination does not need to be discussed with most
adults aged >26 years.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HPV is a very common sexually transmitted infection. Most HPV infections are transient and asymptomatic and cause no clinical problems.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Although new HPV infections are most commonly acquired in adolescence and young adulthood, some adults are at risk for acquiring new HPV infections. At any age, having a new sex partner is a risk factor for acquiring a new HPV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Persons who are in a long-term, mutually monogamous sexual partnership are not likely to acquire a new HPV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Most sexually active adults have been exposed to some HPV types, although not necessarily all of the HPV types targeted by vaccination.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No clinical antibody test can determine whether a person is already immune or still susceptible to any given HPV type.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HPV vaccine efficacy is high among persons who have not been exposed to vaccine-type HPV before vaccination.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccine effectiveness might be low among persons with risk factors for HPV infection or disease (e.g., adults with multiple lifetime sex partners and likely previous infection with vaccine-type HPV), as well as among persons with certain immunocompromising conditions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HPV vaccines are prophylactic (i.e., they prevent new HPV infections). They do not prevent progression of HPV infection to disease, decrease time to clearance of HPV infection, or treat HPV-related disease.

* Dosing schedules, intervals, and definitions of persons considered adequately vaccinated have not changed.

Top

  

 **Suggested citation for this article:** Meites E, Szilagyi PG, Chesson HW,
Unger ER, Romero JR, Markowitz LE. Human Papillomavirus Vaccination for
Adults: Updated Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2019;68:698-702\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6832a3external icon.

_MMWR_ and _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ are service marks of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

All HTML versions of _MMWR_ articles are generated from final proofs through
an automated process. This conversion might result in character translation or
format errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF
version (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for
printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.

Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.

View Page In:pdf icon PDF [94K]

Page last reviewed: August 15, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _MMWR_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1982-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations and Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1990-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1983-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supplementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1985-2015)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notifiable Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notifiable Noninfectious Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * For Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Â _MMWR_ plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Subscriptionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _MMWR_ Paper Subscription
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Free Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Â _MMWR_ Â Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visual Abstracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

