Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003369.htm    
                                Description: Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis is a group of laboratory tests that measure chemicals in the cerebrospinal fluid. CSF is a clear fluid that surrounds and protects the brain and spinal cord. The tests    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF analysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003369.htm

# CSF analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis is a group of laboratory tests that measure
chemicals in the cerebrospinal fluid. CSF is a clear fluid that surrounds and
protects the brain and spinal cord. The tests may look for proteins, sugar
(glucose), and other substances.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of CSF is needed. A lumbar puncture, also called a spinal tap, is the
most common way to collect this sample. Less common ways to take a fluid
sample include:

    * Cisternal puncture
    * Removal of CSF from a tube that is already in the CSF, such as a shunt, ventricular drain, or pain pump
    * Ventricular puncture

After the sample is taken, it is sent to the laboratory for evaluation.

Your doctor will ask you to lie flat for at least one hour after the lumbar
puncture. You may develop a headache after the lumbar puncture. If it happens,
drinking caffeinated beverages such as coffee, tea or soda may help.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will tell you how to prepare for lumbar puncture.

## Why the Test is Performed

Analysis of CSF can help detect certain conditions and diseases. All of the
following can be, but are not always, measured in a sample of CSF:

    * Antibodies and DNA of common viruses
    * Bacteria (including that which causes syphilis, using aÂ VDRL test)
    * Cell count
    * Chloride
    * Cryptococcal antigen
    * Glucose
    * Glutamine
    * Lactate dehydrogenase
    * Oligoclonal banding to look for specific proteins
    * Myelin basic proteinÂ   

    * Total protein
    * Whether there are cancerous cells present
    * Opening pressureÂ   

## Normal Results

Normal results include:

    * Antibodies and DNA of common viruses: None
    * Bacteria: No bacteria grows in a lab culture
    * Cancerous cells: No cancerous cells present
    * Cell count: less than 5 white blood cells (all mononuclear) and 0 red blood cells
    * Chloride: 110 to 125 mEq/L (110 to 125 mmol/L)
    * Fungus: None
    * Glucose: 50 to 80 mg/dL or 2.77 to 4.44 mmol/L (or greater than two-thirds of blood sugar level)
    * Glutamine: 6 to 15 mg/dL (410.5 to 1,026 micromol/L)
    * Lactate dehydrogenase: less than 40 U/L
    * Oligoclonal bands: 0 or 1 bands that are not present in a matched serum sample
    * Protein: 15 to 60 mg/dL (0.15 to 0.6 g/L)
    * Opening pressure: 90 to 180?mm of water
    * Myelin basic protein: Less than 4ng/mL

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal CSF analysis result may be due to many different causes,
including:

    * Cancer
    * Encephalitis (such as West Nile and Eastern Equine)
    * Hepatic encephalopathy
    * Infection
    * Inflammation
    * Reye syndrome
    * Meningitis due to bacteria, fungus, tuberculosis, or a virus
    * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
    * Alzheimer disease
    * Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
    * Pseudotumor Cerebrii
    * Normal pressure hydrocephalus

## Alternative Names

Cerebrospinal fluid analysis

## Images

    * ![CSF chemistry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9239t.jpg)CSF chemistry

## References

Euerle BD. Spinal puncture and cerebrospinal fluid examination. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 60.

Griggs RC, Jozefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

Karcher DS, McPherson RA. Cerebrospinal, synovial, serous body fluids, and
alternative specimens. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![Encephalitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Encephalitis_thumb.jpg)Encephalitis
_Read more_

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

