Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000609.htm    
                                Description: Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome (WFS) is a group of symptoms resulting from the failure of the adrenal glands to function normally as a result of bleeding into the gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000609.htm

# Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome (WFS) is a group of symptoms resulting from
the failure of the adrenal glands to function normally as a result of bleeding
into the gland.

## Causes

The adrenal glands are two triangle-shaped glands. One gland is located on top
of each kidney. The adrenal glands produce and release different hormones that
the body needs to function normally. The adrenal glands can be affected by
many diseases, such as infections like WFS.

WFS is caused by severe infection with meningococcus bacteria or other
bacteria, such as:

    * Group B streptococcus
    *  _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
    *  _Streptococcus pneumoniae_
    *  _Staphylococcus aureus_

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur suddenly. They are due to the bacteria growing (multiplying)
inside the body. Symptoms include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Joint and muscle pain
    * Headache
    * Vomiting 

Infection with bacteria causes bleeding throughout the body, which causes:

    * Bodywide rash
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation in which small blood clots cut off blood supply to the organs
    * Septic shock 

Bleeding into the adrenal glands causes adrenal crisis, in which enough
adrenal hormones are not produced. This leads to symptoms such as:

    * Dizziness, weakness
    * Very low blood pressure
    * Very fast heart rate
    * Confusion or coma 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about the
person's symptoms.

Blood tests will be done to confirm a bacterial infection. Tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * Complete blood count with differential
    * Blood clotting studies

If the provider suspects the infection is caused by meningococcus bacteria,
other tests that may be done include:

    * Lumbar puncture to get a sample of spinal fluid for culture
    * Skin biopsy and Gram stain
    * Urine analysis

Tests that may be ordered to help diagnose acute adrenal crisis include:

    * ACTH (cosyntropin) stimulation test
    * Cortisol blood test
    * Blood sugar
    * Potassium blood test
    * Sodium blood test
    * Blood pH test 

## Treatment

Antibiotics are started right away to treat the bacterial infection.
Glucocorticoid medicines will also be given to treat adrenal gland
insufficiency. Supportive treatments will be needed for other symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

WFS is fatal unless treatment for the bacterial infection is started right
away and glucocorticoid drugs are given.

## Prevention

To prevent WFS caused by meningococcal bacteria, a vaccine is available.

## Alternative Names

Fulminant meningococcemia - Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome; Fulminant
meningococcal sepsis - Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome; Hemorrhagic
adrenalitis

## Images

    * ![Meningococcal lesions on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2938t.jpg)Meningococcal lesions on the back
    * ![Adrenal gland hormone secretion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8719t.jpg)Adrenal gland hormone secretion

## References

Stephens DS. _Neisseria meningitides_. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 211.

Newell-Price JDC, Auchus RJ. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Auchus RJ,
Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_.
14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 15.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![Meningococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MeningococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Meningococcal
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

