Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000608.htm    
                                Description: Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. This covering is called the meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meningococcal meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000608.htm

# Meningococcal meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal
cord. This covering is called the meninges.

Bacteria are one type of germ that can cause meningitis. The meningococcal
bacteria is one kind of bacteria that causes meningitis.

## Causes

Meningococcal meningitis is caused by the bacteria _Neisseria meningitidis_
(also known as meningococcus).

Meningococcus is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in children and
teens. It is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis in adults.

The infection occurs more often in winter or spring. It may cause local
epidemics at boarding schools, college dormitories, or military bases.

Risk factors include recent exposure to someone with meningococcal meningitis
and a recent upper respiratory infection.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually come on quickly, and may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Mental status changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Purple, bruise-like areas (purpura)
    * Rash, pinpoint red spots (petechiae)
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Severe headache
    * Stiff neckÂ 

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Agitation
    * Bulging fontanelles in infants 
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Poor feeding or irritability in children
    * Rapid breathing
    * Unusual posture with the head and neck arched backwards (opisthotonus)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Questions will focus on
symptoms and possible exposure to someone who might have the same symptoms,
such as a stiff neck and fever.

If the provider thinks meningitis is possible, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
will likely be done to remove a sample of spinal fluid for testing.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head
    * White blood cell (WBC) count
    * Gram stain, other special stains 

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be started as soon as possible.

    * Ceftriaxone is one of the most commonly used antibiotics.
    * Penicillin in high doses is almost always effective.
    * If there is an allergy to penicillin, chloramphenicol may be used. 

Sometimes, corticosteroids are given to children.

People in close contact with someone who has meningococcal meningitis should
be given antibiotics to prevent infection.

Such people include:

    * Household members
    * Roommates in dormitories
    * Military personnel who live in close quarters
    * Those who come into close and long-term contact with an infected person

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early treatment improves the outcome. Death is possible. Young children and
adults over age 50 have the highest risk of death.

## Possible Complications

Long-term complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Hearing loss
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus)Â 
    * Buildup of fluid between the skull and brain (subdural effusion)
    * Inflammation of the heart muscle (myocarditis)
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you suspect meningitis in a young child who has the following symptoms:

    * Feeding difficulties
    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * Persistent unexplained fever

Call the local emergency number if you develop any of the serious symptoms
listed above. Meningitis can quickly become a life-threatening illness.

## Prevention

Close contacts in the same household, school, or day care center should be
watched for early signs of the disease as soon as the first person is
diagnosed. All family and close contacts of this person should begin
antibiotic treatment as soon as possible to prevent spread of the infection.
Ask your provider about this during the first visit.

Always use good hygiene habits, such as washing hands before and after
changing a diaper or after using the bathroom.

Vaccines for meningococcus are effective for controlling spread. They are
currently recommended for:

    * Adolescents
    * College students in their first year living in dormitories
    * Military recruits
    * Travelers to certain parts of the world

Although rare, people who have been vaccinated can still develop the
infection.

## Alternative Names

Meningococcal meningitis; Gram negative - meningococcus

## Images

    * ![Meningococcal lesions on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2938t.jpg)Meningococcal lesions on the back
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![CSF cell count](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9238t.jpg)CSF cell count

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Bacterial meningitis.
www.cdc.gov/meningitis/bacterial.html. Updated January 25, 2017. Accessed
October 8, 2018.

Pollard AJ, Sadarangani M. _Neisseria meningitides_ (meningococcus). In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 191.

Stephens DS, Apicella MA. _Neisseria meningitidis_. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 213.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![Meningococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MeningococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Meningococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

