Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000613.htm    
                                Description: Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. This covering is called the meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Staphylococcal meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000613.htm

# Staphylococcal meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal
cord. This covering is called the meninges.

Bacteria are one type of germ that may cause meningitis. The staphylococcal
bacteria is one type of bacteria that causes meningitis.

## Causes

Staphylococcal meningitis is caused by staphylococcus bacteria. When it is
caused by _Staphylococcus aureus_ or _Staphylococcus epidermidis_ bacteria, it
usually develops as a complication of surgery or as an infection that spreads
through the blood from another site.

Risk factors include:

    * Infections of heart valves
    * Past infection of the brain
    * Past meningitis due to spinal fluid shunts
    * Recent brain surgery
    * Spinal fluid shunt
    * Trauma 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may come on quickly, and include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Mental status changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Severe headache
    * Stiff neck 

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Agitation
    * Bulging fontanelles in infants
    * Decreased alertness
    * Poor feeding or irritability in children
    * Rapid breathing
    * Unusual posture, with the head and neck arched backwards (opisthotonos) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Questions will focus on
symptoms and risk factors.

If the doctor thinks meningitis is possible, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) is
done to remove a sample of spinal fluid for testing. If you have a spinal
fluid shunt, the sample may be taken from this instead.

Tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head
    * Gram stain, other special stains, and culture of CSF

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be started as soon as possible. Vancomycin is the first
choice for suspected staphylococcal meningitis. Nafcillin is sometimes used
instead.

Often, treatment will include a search for, and removal of, possible sources
of bacteria in the body. These include shunts or artificial heart valves.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early treatment improves the outcome. However, some people do not survive.
Young children and adults over age 50 have the highest risk for death.

Staphylococcal meningitis often improves more quickly, with fewer
complications, if the source of the infection is removed. The source may
include shunts, hardware in joints, or artificial heart valves.

## Possible Complications

Long-term complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Buildup of fluid between the skull and brain (subdural effusion)
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus) 
    * Hearing loss
    * Seizures
    * Staph infection in another area of the body

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you suspect meningitis in a young child who has the following symptoms:

    * Feeding problems
    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * Persistent, unexplained fever

Call the local emergency number if you develop any of the serious symptoms
listed above. Meningitis can quickly become a life-threatening illness.

## Prevention

In high-risk people, taking antibiotics before diagnostic or surgical
procedures may help reduce the risk. Discuss this with your doctor.

## Alternative Names

Staphylococcal meningitis

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Bacterial meningitis.
www.cdc.gov/meningitis/bacterial.html. Updated January 25, 2017. Accessed
October 8, 2018.

Nath A. Meningitis: bacterial, viral, and other. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 412.

Tunkel AR, Van de Beek D, Scheld WM. Acute meningitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

