Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000642.htm    
                                Description: Cryptococcal meningitis is a fungal infection of the tissues covering the brain and spinal cord. These tissues are called meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meningitis - cryptococcal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000642.htm

# Meningitis - cryptococcal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryptococcal meningitis is a fungal infection of the tissues covering the
brain and spinal cord. These tissues are called meninges.

## Causes

In most cases, cryptococcal meningitis is caused by the fungus _Cryptococcus
neoformans_. This fungus is found in soil around the world. _Cryptococcus
gattii_ can also cause meningitis.

This type of meningitis is not spread from person to person. Usually, it
spreads through the bloodstream to the brain from another place in the body
that has the infection.

Cryptococcal meningitis most often affects people with a weakened immune
system, including people with:

    * AIDS
    * Cirrhosis (a type of liver disease)
    * Diabetes
    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma
    * Sarcoidosis
    * An organ transplant 

The disease is rare in people who have a normal immune system and no long-term
health problems.

## Symptoms

This form of meningitis starts slowly, over a few days to a few weeks.
Symptoms may include:

    * Fever
    * Hallucinations
    * Headache
    * Mental status change (confusion)
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Stiff neck 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

A lumbar puncture (spinal tap) is used to diagnose meningitis. In this test, a
sample of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is removed from your spine and tested.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * Cryptococcal antigen in CSF or blood, to look for antibodies
    * CSF examination for cell count, glucose, and protein
    * CT scan of the head
    * Gram stain, other special stains, and culture of CSF

## Treatment

Antifungal medicines are used to treat this form of meningitis. Intravenous
(IV, through a vein) therapy with amphotericin B is the most common treatment.
It is often combined with an oral antifungal medicine called 5-flucytosine.

Another oral drug, fluconazole, in high doses may also be effective. If
needed, it will be prescribed later in the disease course.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who recover from cryptococcal meningitis need long-term medicine to
prevent the infection from coming back. People with weakened immune systems,
such as those with HIV/AIDS, will also need long-term treatment to improve
their immune system.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur from this infection:

    * Brain damage
    * Hearing or vision loss
    * HydrocephalusÂ (excessive CSF in the brain)
    * Seizures
    * Death 

Amphotericin B can have side effects such as:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fever and chills
    * Joint and muscles aches
    * Kidney damage 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) if you develop any of the
serious symptoms listed above. Meningitis can quickly become a life-
threatening illness.

Call your local emergency number or go to an emergency room if you suspect
meningitis in a young child who has these symptoms:

    * Feeding difficulties
    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * Persistent, unexplained fever 

## Alternative Names

Cryptococcal meningitis

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Fungal meningitis.Â
www.cdc.gov/meningitis/fungal.html. Updated April 15, 2016. Accessed December
14, 2018.

Kauffman CA. Cryptococcosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 336.

Perfect JR. Cryptococcosis ( _Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii_
). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 264.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

