Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001422.htm    
                                Description: A subdural effusion is a collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) trapped between the surface of the brain and the outer lining of the brain (the dura matter). If this fluid becomes infected, the condition    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subdural effusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001422.htm

# Subdural effusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A subdural effusion is a collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) trapped
between the surface of the brain and the outer lining of the brain (the dura
matter). If this fluid becomes infected, the condition is called a subdural
empyema.

## Causes

A subdural effusion is a rare complication of meningitis caused by bacteria.
Subdural effusion is more common in infants.

Subdural effusion may also occur after head trauma.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Outward curving of a baby's soft spot (bulging fontanelle)
    * Abnormally wide spaces in the bony joints of a baby's skull (separated sutures)
    * Increased head circumference
    * No energy (lethargy)
    * Persistent fever
    * Seizures
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness or loss of movement on both sides of the body

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

To detect the subdural effusion, tests that may be done include:

    * CT scan of the head
    * Head size (circumference) measurements 
    * MRI scan of the head
    * Ultrasound of the head 

## Treatment

Surgery to drain the effusion is often necessary. In rare cases, a permanent
drainage device (shunt) is needed to drain fluid. Antibiotics may need to be
given through a vein.

Treatment may include:

    * Surgery to drain the effusion
    * Drainage device, called a shunt, left in place for a short time or longer time
    * Antibiotics given through a vein to treat the infection

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery from a subdural effusion is expected. If nervous system problems
continue, they are generally due to the meningitis, not the effusion. Long-
term antibiotics are usually not needed.

## Possible Complications

Complications of surgery may include:

    * Bleeding 
    * Brain damage 
    * Infection 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if:

    * Your child has recently been treated for meningitis and symptoms continue 
    * New symptoms develop 

## References

De Vries LS, Volpe JJ. Bacterial and fungal intracranial infections. In: Volpe
JJ, Inder TE, Darras BT, et al, eds. _Volpe's Neurology of the Newborn_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 35.

Kim KS. Bacterial meningitis beyond the neonatal period. In: Cherry JD,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's
Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 31.

Nath A. Meningitis: bacterial, viral, and other. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 412.

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

