

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Pets, Healthy People

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Wildlife

Minus

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources

 **CDC would like to thank MAJ Justin Schlanser, DVM, MPH, Diplomate of the
American College of Veterinary Preventive Medicine, for his careful review of
these pages.**

Wildlife includes any undomesticated animal living in the wild, including

![coastal brown grizzly bears in alaska](/healthypets/images/brown-grizzly-
bears.jpg)

those hunted for food, sport, or profit. Many people enjoy watching wildlife,
and studies have shown that positive encounters with wildlife can have
profound, life-changing effects on people. If you and your pets spend time
outdoors around wildlife, you need to be aware of the diseases that can spread
from wildlife to you and your pets.

Because wild animals can carry diseases without appearing to be sick, it is
important to enjoy wildlife from a distance. Close contact with wildlife or
their urine or droppings can spread these diseases to people and pets.

To protect yourself and your family from getting sick:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Avoid hand-feeding wildlife.![i can see it girl](/healthypets/images/i-can-see-it.jpg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Avoid playing or working in areas where there are wildlife droppings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Leave orphaned animals alone. Often the parents are close by and will return for their young.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Always wash your hands and the hands of children with running water and soap after working or playing outside, especially in areas where wildlife have been spotted.

By following some simple health tips, you are less likely to get sick from
wildlife in the United States.

The most common diseases associated with wildlife that can cause human illness
are:

ExternalCdc-pdfAeromoniasis ( _Aeromonas_ spp.)

 _Aeromonas_ is a type of bacteria that is commonly found in fresh and
brackish water. This germ can cause disease in stressed fish and amphibians.
_Aeromonas_ spp. can cause discoloration of the limbs of amphibians and the
fins of fish and can cause internal bleeding in these aquatic animals.

Though it very rarely happens, people can become infected when they handle
infected fish or accidentally swallow contaminated food or water. If these
germs are swallowed, _Aeromonas_ infections can cause nausea, vomiting, and
diarrhea. Skin infections can happen if the bacteria get into open wounds or
scrapes. More severe disease can happen in children or people with weakened
immune systems.

Practicing healthy habits, including hand washing, will reduce the risk of
_Aeromonas_ infection.

ExternalCdc-pdfMore

Anthrax ( _Bacillus anthracis_ spp.)

Anthrax is a naturally occurring disease of animals caused by a type of
bacteria called **_Bacillus anthracis_**. People and animals can get anthrax
when they accidentally breathe in or swallow spores in contaminated soil,
food, or water. The greatest risk is from contact with bodily fluids of an
animal that has anthrax or has recently died from anthrax. Anthrax can also
get into open wounds. People who live in areas where anthrax has occurred
should consider vaccinating their livestock against the disease.

Anthrax is a serious but rare disease in the United States. The symptoms of
anthrax depend on the route of infection and can take anywhere from 1 day to
more than 2 months to appear. All types of anthrax have the potential, if
untreated, to spread throughout the body and cause severe illness and even
death. To prevent anthrax, be aware of areas where anthrax is present and wear
gloves when handling animal carcasses from those regions. Use care when
processing bloated or swollen carcasses so that accumulated gasses blow away
from you when the carcass is opened.

More

Baylisascaris procyonis ( _Raccoon roundworm_ spp.)

 _Baylisascaris_ infection is caused by roundworm eggs found in raccoon, bear,
and skunk droppings. The disease is passed to people and animals if they
accidentally ingest contaminated food or soil.

If a person or dog ingests the eggs, the worm larvae then hatch inside them
and can migrate through the body. Human infections are rare but can be severe
if the parasites invade the eye (ocular larva migrans), organs (visceral larva
migrans), or brain (neural larva migrans).

Raccoon roundworm can be prevented by avoiding areas frequented by raccoons.
If you need to clean raccoon droppings up, wear gloves and use caution so as
not to kick up dust. Always wash your hands after working or playing in dirt.

More

Botulism ( _Clostridium botulinum_ spp.)

 _C. botulinum_ produces a toxin that causes botulism, a rare but serious
condition in humans. _Clostridium botulinum_ is a type of bacteria that can be
found in the intestines of many marine and freshwater species of fish
worldwide. Though rare, outbreaks of botulism can be associated with fish,
including aquatic game, canned foods, and smoked fish. Affected fish show few
signs of illness, though some fish may have pale gill colorings or abdominal
swelling.

A person with botulism can develop double vision, blurred vision, drooping
eyelids, and paralysis, which can result in death. People are commonly exposed
through the environment or contaminated food, such as smoked fish products. To
protect yourself from botulism, avoid fishing in areas where there are dead
fish or waterfowl and cook all fish thoroughly. Anyone who thinks they may
have botulism should seek emergency medical care.

More

Brucellosis ( _Brucella_ spp.)

Brucellosis is a bacterial disease that affects the ability of animals to
reproduce. The disease can be spread to humans through contact with the
birthing tissues from infected animals or through drinking unpasteurized (raw)
milk. Among wildlife; bison; elk; caribou; moose; feral pigs; and some marine
mammals can be infected with _Brucella_. Infected animals may have decreased
appetite, weight loss, behavioral changes, and lack of energy, but most
animals infected with brucellosis show no signs of illness. Brucellosis
affects the reproductive organs and can cause miscarriage in animals and
occasionally people.

People who hunt or eat fresh game meat are at highest risk for contracting
brucellosis. They may be exposed through skin wounds while dressing a carcass
or by eating undercooked meat. People who are infected with brucellosis will
usually become sick within 6-8 weeks of exposure. Sick people will have flu-
like symptoms that last 2-4 weeks. Sometimes brucellosis can become a chronic
illness that can be difficult to treat.

Prevent brucellosis by wearing gloves while handling fresh carcasses and
thoroughly cooking any meat that will be eaten.

More

Cryptococcosis ( _Cryptococcus neoformans_ spp.)

Cryptococcosis is an infection that is caused by a fungus named _Cryptococcus
neoformans._ This fungus can be found in soil and bird droppings, especially
droppings from pigeons. When dried bird droppings are disturbed, dust
containing the fungus can be released into the air and be inhaled by people,
cats, and dogs.

Most people do not become sick with cryptococcosis, but people with weakened
immune systems may be at risk. Signs of disease include headaches, fever,
cough, shortness of breath, and night sweats.

Prevent cryptococcosis by avoiding enclosed areas where pigeons or other wild
birds roost.

More

ExternalCdc-pdfDermatophilosis (Lumpy wool, Strawberry footrot)

Dermatophilosis is a disease caused by a type of bacteria that can infect the
skin and hair of both people and animals. The disease is spread from animals
to people through touching an infected animal. Deer are the most common
wildlife infected. Affected animals may have a "paintbrush" appearance of
matted hair. The matted spots will often have scabs or crusts with pus. Other
infected animals may show no symptoms at all.

This disease is most common among people who raise deer or who have contact
with fawns. People who handle an infected animal may get pus-filled blisters
on their hands and arms. These sores are usually not painful but can develop
into shallow, red ulcers that scar.

Wear gloves and protective clothing when working with any animals, especially
those with the classic "paintbrush" matted hair appearance, to reduce the risk
of getting this disease.

ExternalCdc-pdfMore

Echinococcosis (Hydatid cyst disease spp.)

Echinococcosis is a parasitic disease caused by eating or drinking food or
water contaminated with tapeworm eggs or through contact with an infected
animal. This parasite is a tapeworm that can form large fluid-filled cysts in
the tissues of animals or people who accidentally eat the eggs. The adult
tapeworm can be found in foxes, coyotes, cats, and other wild predators.
Animals become infected by eating the tissue of an infected animal. Infected
animals rarely show any signs of disease but can have a large number of adult
tapeworms.

Although the _Echinococcus_ parasite invades many different organs of the
body, most people who are infected with the disease will not have any signs of
illness for years. Symptoms start when the slow-growing cysts become large
enough to press on the organs they have invaded. The tapeworms grow slowly in
several different organs of the body but are most commonly found in the liver
and lungs.

Prevent echinococcosis by avoiding stool of wild canids, thoroughly cooking
game meat, and practicing healthy habits, including hand washing.

More

Edwardsiellosis ( _Edwardsiella tarda_ spp.)

 _Edwardsiella tarda_ is a type of bacteria associated with fresh and
saltwater animals, such as fish, amphibians, reptiles, and mammals. _E. tarda_
is known to cause serious illness in fish. Affected fish may show abnormal
swimming behavior, discoloration of the fins or skin, bulging or increased
opacity of the eyes, and other complications.

People can become infected by accidentally swallowing contaminated water or
through handling infected fish. Affected people commonly get nausea, vomiting,
and/or diarrhea. People with weak immune systems may also be at risk for more
serious disease.

Wash your hands before and after handling fish to reduce the risk of
edwardsiellosis.

More

ExternalErysipeloid ( _Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae_ spp.)

 _Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae_ is a type of bacteria that causes erysipeloid,
a skin condition that people can develop after contact with infected fish,
poultry, or pork. Healthy fish often carry the bacteria on their scales with
no signs of illness.

People, especially fish handlers, can become infected through open wounds on
their hands. Affected people will usually develop a warm, raised, red, and
intensely itchy area of skin at the site of the contaminated wound. If the
infection spreads from the skin to deeper tissues, arthritis or more serious
signs of illness (fever, weakness, muscle aches, headaches, etc.) may develop.

People who handle fish regularly should wear gloves and wash their hands often
to reduce the risk of this disease.

ExternalMore

Giardiasis ( _Giardia_ spp.)

 _Giardia_ is a parasite that causes diarrheal illness in animals and people.
_Giardia_ is transmitted to animals and people through food or water
contaminated with stool. Though different types of _Giardia_ affect humans and
animals, both the human and animal types are carried by wildlife, including
beavers, muskrats, deer, coyotes, and rodents. Pets may become infected after
drinking from puddles or ponds or swallowing infected stool from other
animals. Affected animals may have diarrhea, greasy stools, and dehydration.

In people, the symptoms of giardiasis may include diarrhea; gas; greasy
stools; abdominal pain; nausea; and vomiting. Symptoms can last 1-2 weeks.

To avoid _Giardia_ infection, hikers and backpackers should always treat water
before offering it to their pets or drinking it themselves. People should also
wash their hands often and use caution when swimming or wading in potentially
contaminated ponds or lakes to avoid swallowing the water.

More

Hantavirus

Hantavirus is a virus that can cause severe respiratory disease. It is spread
through accidentally breathing in virus particles in dust from dry rodent
urine or through contact with rodents or their droppings or nests.

Early signs in people include fever, headache, muscle aches, vomiting,
diarrhea, abdominal pain, dizziness, and chills.

Follow CDC's cleaning guidelines for cleaning areas that may have a rodent
infestation, and air out unused buildings before entering.

More

Histoplasmosis ( _Histoplasma capsulatum_ )

Histoplasmosis is a fungal disease that is spread to people by breathing in
dust from pigeon or bat droppings. Fungal spores are found in the environment,
especially in areas with bird and bat droppings. Birds do not get sick from
exposure to histoplasmosis.

Very few people become infected with histoplasmosis. People who do become sick
tend to develop pneumonia-like symptoms (fever, chest pains, and a dry or
nonproductive cough) within 1-3 weeks after exposure. Infants, older people,
and those with weakened immune systems are more susceptible to the fungus and
might develop more serious illness.

People with weak immune systems should avoid activities such as disturbing
material where there are bird or bat droppings, cleaning chicken coops,
exploring caves, and cleaning, remodeling, or tearing down old buildings.

More

Leptospirosis ( _Leptospira_ spp.)

Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease of humans and animals that is transmitted
through contaminated water and urine or other body fluids from an infected
animal. The _Leptospira_ spp. bacteria can infect raccoons; skunks; squirrels;
opossums; deer; rodents, and other wild animals without any signs of disease.
Though it is difficult to detect early stages of leptospirosis in animals, the
disease can lead to kidney and liver failure if left untreated.

People who become infected with leptospirosis might not have any symptoms of
the disease. Others will have nonspecific flu-like symptoms (fever, headache,
chills, vomiting, rash) within 2-7 days after exposure. These symptoms usually
resolve without medical treatment but can reappear and lead to more severe
disease (yellow skin and eyes, rash, kidney or liver failure, meningitis).

Some ways to prevent leptospirosis from wildlife are to avoid contact with
environments potentially contaminated with animal urine and to avoid
swallowing water from lakes, rivers, or swamps while swimming.

More

Lyme disease ( _Borrelia burgdorferi_ )

Lyme disease is a bacterial disease that affects humans and animals bitten by
the _Ixodes_ species of ticks. Rodents and other wildlife are reservoirs of
the disease. Most infections occur from the nymphal-stage ticks, which are
tiny and difficult to remove.

Infected people will typically have a red "bull's eye" rash (erythema migrans)
at the site of the tick bite that appears about 7 days after being bitten.
Flu-like symptoms quickly follow the rash. If not treated, this disease can
spread to other parts of the body and cause symptoms such as arthritis and
loss of facial muscle tone (Bell's palsy).

Lyme disease can be prevented by avoiding exposure to ticks, using a tick
repellent, and by finding and removing ticks from your pets and your family as
soon as possible after returning from a tick-infested area.

More

Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV)

Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) can be transmitted through the
urine, droppings, saliva, or cage material of infected wild and domestic
rodents, wild hogs, skunks, raccoons, and squirrels. Infected animals may
appear normal or show more significant signs, including weight loss, hunched
posture, and ultimately death.

Human infections with LCMV are rare. Symptoms are similar to those of the
common flu (fever, stiff neck, loss of appetite, muscle aches, headache,
nausea, and vomiting) and often occur 1-2 weeks after exposure.

Prevent LCMV infection by avoiding contact with wild rodents and their
droppings.

More

ExternalCdc-pdfMycobacteriosis ( _Mycobacterium marinum_ )

 _Mycobacterium_ _marinum_ is a type of bacteria that causes disease in fish,
reptiles, and amphibians. It is spread to people and animals through
contaminated aquarium water. All fish are susceptible to mycobacterium, but
fresh water species seem to be most affected. This disease is slow growing in
fish. Affected fish may stop eating, lose their fins or scales, develop sores,
or appear deformed.

Though infection in humans is rare, people can become sick with
mycobacteriosis after coming into contact with contaminated water through
minor cuts and skin abrasions. People with this disease, commonly known as
"fish tank granulomas," develop warm raised, red areas of the skin. Skin
lesions can leave long-lasting scars.

Reduce the risk for mycobacterium by washing your hands after handling
reptiles, amphibians, and fish.

ExternalCdc-pdfMore

Plague ( _Yersinia pestis_ )

Plague is a rare bacterial disease that affects animals and humans and is
spread by infected fleas. Rodents like mice, rats, prairie dogs, and squirrels
can carry plague. Plague is found primarily in the western United States.
People and animals can be infected when they are bitten by infected fleas or
when they handle blood or tissues of infected animals. Wild and domestic
carnivores (especially cats) can also become infected by eating infected
rodents. Cats usually have fever, weight loss, and loss of energy with
enlarged glands. Wild rodents may or may not have any signs of disease.

People most often become infected with plague through flea bites or from
contact with body fluids of infected animals. Hunters may be at increased
risk. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague that affects people.
Symptoms include a sudden onset of high fever, chills, headache, malaise, and
swollen glands (lymph nodes). The other two forms of plague, septicemic and
pneumonic, cause more severe disease.

Plague can be prevented by keeping fleas away from your pets and family and by
wearing gloves while handling or skinning potentially infected animals.

More

Rabies

Rabies, a fatal neurologic disease in animals and humans, is caused by a
virus. The rabies virus can infect most mammals, including bats; bears;
beavers; deer; wild canids such as fox and coyotes; and felids such as
mountain lions and bobcats; raccoons; skunks; opossums; and other small
mammals. Animals and people are most commonly infected through bites from
rabid animals. Infected animals may have a variety of signs but most often
have sudden behavioral changes and progressive paralysis. Rabies can be
prevented in some animals by vaccination.

The first symptoms in humans can start days to months after exposure and
include generalized weakness, fever, and headache. Within a few days symptoms
will progress to confusion, anxiety, behavioral changes, and delirium.

If you have been bitten by a wild animal that wasn't acting normal, contact
your health care provider right away for treatment. Once symptoms appear, it
is almost always too late for treatment.

More

Rat-bite fever ( _Streptobacillus moniliformis_ )

Rat bite fever is a rare bacterial disease transmitted by bites or scratches
from infected rodents. It can also be spread by exposure to contaminated
water, food, or rodent urine.  The disease is typically seen in rats. Infected
rats can carry the infection but appear healthy. However, other animals
infected with rat-bite fever may develop arthritis, skin infections,
pneumonia, and swollen lymph nodes.

In people infected with rat-bite fever, signs range from flu-like symptoms and
a rash to more severe infections of the joints, liver, heart, lungs, brain,
and blood, if left untreated.

Prevent Rat bite fever from wild rodents by avoiding contact with wild rodents
and their urine.

More

Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF, _Rickettsia rickettsii_ )

Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is a bacterial disease transmitted to dogs
and humans by ticks. Dogs show a variety of symptoms similar to those in
humans, including fever, lameness, coughing, vomiting and diarrhea, and
swelling of the face or extremities.

People who are infected with RMSF generally start getting sick 2-14 days after
exposure. Symptoms may include fever, rash, headache, nausea, vomiting,
abdominal pain, and muscle pain. RMSF can develop into a serious illness if
not promptly treated.

Rocky Mountain spotted fever disease can be prevented by avoiding exposure to
ticks, using a tick repellent, and by finding and removing ticks from your
pets and your family as soon as possible after returning from a tick-infested
area.

More

Salmonellosis ( _Salmonella_ spp.)

 _Salmonella_ spreads to people through contaminated food (eggs and meat) or
contact with stool of certain animals, including wildlife. In the wild, people
usually become sick with _Salmonella_ through direct contact with an infected
animal's stool or by accidentally drinking contaminated water. While it
usually does not make the animals sick, _Salmonella_ can cause serious illness
when it is passed to people.

People exposed to _Salmonella_ might have diarrhea, vomiting, fever, or
abdominal cramps. Infants, elderly persons, and people with weakened immune
systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.

Prevent salmonellosis by avoiding stool of wild animals, thoroughly cooking
game meat, and practicing healthy habits, including hand washing.

More

Trichinellosis or Trichinosis ( _Trichinella spiralis_ )

Trichinellosis is a parasitic disease caused by eating the raw or undercooked
meat of animals infected with _Trichinella_. _Trichinella_ infections are
common in wild, meat-eating animals such as bears and cougars as well as some
other meat and plant-eating animals like wild hogs. People usually become
infected by consuming raw or undercooked meat that is infected, especially
from bear and wild hogs. Most animals infected with _Trichinella_ do not show
any signs of illness.

People infected with _Trichinella_ can have a variety of symptoms depending on
the amount of parasite ingested and how strong their immune system is. The
first symptoms of trichinellosis include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and
abdominal pain. Infected people may then develop facial swelling and flu-like
symptoms such as headache, fever, chills, and muscle pain. In very severe
infections, people can lose control of their movements and have heart and
breathing problems. _Trichinella_ can cause death if severe infections are
left untreated.

Prevent trichinellosis from wildlife by thoroughly cooking game meat.

More

Tuberculosis ( _Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex_ )

 _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ complex is a group of bacteria that causes a
disease called tuberculosis. Bison, buffalo, opossums, badgers, and deer can
all become infected.

People can get tuberculosis if they ingest undercooked meat, accidentally
inhale the bacteria, or are infected through skin cuts or scrapes. Depending
on the route of infection, people may have sores; swollen lymph nodes;
difficulty breathing; weight loss; night sweats; fever; or intestinal upset.

Avoid tuberculosis from wildlife by thoroughly cooking meat and by washing
your hands after handling wildlife.

More

Tularemia ( _Francisella tularensis_ )

Tularemia is a bacterial disease that can spread to people through bites from
ticks or deer flies, handling or consuming infected animals, accidentally
swallowing contaminated water, or inhaling contaminated dust. Though typically
a wildlife disease, tularemia has been reported in all U.S. states except
Hawaii. Affected animals may have sudden onset of fever, weakness, decreased
appetite, and reduced mobility. Within a few hours or days, the animal can
become stiff and die.

People exposed to tularemia can have a variety of symptoms ranging from fever,
chills, headache, and muscle aches to skin ulcers; swollen and painful lymph
nodes; inflamed eyes; sore throat; mouth sores and diarrhea. They may also
develop pneumonia.

People exposed to an infected animal should be seen by their doctor
immediately because treatment works best when started early.

You can reduce your risk of tularemia by handling dead animals with gloves,
cooking game meat thoroughly, wearing insect repellent, and when possible,
avoiding mowing over dead animals during outside work.

More

ExternalCdc-pdfVesicular stomatitis

Vesicular stomatitis is a disease caused by a virus. Vesicular stomatitis is
primarily a disease of livestock, but people and several species of wildlife
can become infected. Infected animals may have fluid-filled blisters, called
vesicles, around the mouth, on their feet, or under the belly.

It is very rare for people to get vesicular stomatitis. Infections can occur
when people handle sick animals or contaminated tissues and blood from sick
animals. Infected people may have a variety of symptoms ranging from no signs
of illness to flu-like symptoms and blisters.

Reduce the risk for Vesicular stomatitis by washing your hands after handling
affected wildlife.

ExternalCdc-pdfMore

Vibriosis ( _Vibrio_ spp.)

 _Vibrio_ are bacteria that are mostly found in saltwater and cause serious
disease in marine fish. People usually get sick with vibriosis after eating
raw or undercooked fish or shellfish or after swallowing contaminated water.
Fish affected by _Vibrio_ can have symptoms ranging from deep skin ulcers to
more wide-spread signs of skin darkening, scale loss, swelling of the abdomen,
and loss of appetite.

In people, _Vibrio_ can cause nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Some types of
_Vibrio_ can also cause skin infections from contact with contaminated water.

People can prevent vibriosis infections by eating cooked fish and shellfish
and by avoiding exposure of open wounds or broken skin to warm salt or
brackish water, and avoiding raw shellfish harvested from such waters.

More

West Nile Virus (WNV)

West Nile Virus is carried by birds and transmitted by mosquitoes. People,
birds, and horses get WNV by being bitten by an infected mosquito. Most
animals infected with WNV will show no signs of illness. Some birds will die
of the disease.

Most people who become infected with WNV do not have any signs of illness;
however, people who do become ill usually have flu-like symptoms.  A small
percentage of people with WNV infection develop a more serious neurologic
illness, such as encephalitis or meningitis (inflammation of the brain and
surrounding tissues).  

Prevent West Nile Virus by using mosquito repellents, wearing long-sleeved
shirts and long pants, and limiting outdoor exposure from dusk to dawn. Using
air conditioning, installing window and door screens, and reducing mosquito
breeding sites, can further decrease the risk for WNV exposure.

More

In this section

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect your home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Don't handle wildlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect yourself from disease

Wildlife should always be enjoyed from a distance. If you are close enough
that

![will wood mouse](/healthypets/images/wild-wood-mouse.jpg)

the animal changes its behavior (for example, stops eating or runs away), you
are too close! Wild animals can carry diseases but not appear to be sick at
all, so staying away is the safest way to enjoy viewing wildlife. Follow these
simple tips to help protect your family and pets from getting diseases from
wildlife. Additional tips and information about outdoor safety and disease
control can be found under "More Information."

### Protect your home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep windows and doors closed or screened and cover any holes or openings to prevent bats, rodents, or other wild animals from entering your home, church, school, or other buildings.![father and son repairing garden house](/healthypets/images/repairing-garden.jpg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clean up trash around your home and keep your garbage cans closed. Garbage and trash can attract unwanted visits from wildlife.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Do not leave food (bait) outside to attract animals to your backyard. This brings the animals closer together and close to you, and this makes it easier for disease to spread.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep compost and wood piles at least 100 feet away from buildings to help reduce rodent infestations in the building.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Make sure pets do not have access to stagnant water sources (ponds, bird baths, etc.) that are also used by wildlife.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find rodent- and bat-proofing information under the More Information tab.

### Don't handle wildlife

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Teach children to never handle unfamiliar animals, wild or domestic,![young rabbits on the grass](/healthypets/images/young-rabbits.jpg)

even if they appear friendly or harmless.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Do not touch or pick up dead animals with your bare hands. Consider calling animal control to remove any dead animals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Never adopt wild animals or bring them into your home. Do not try to save or rescue wild animals. If you have already found an animal, refer to the National Wildlife Rehabilitator's Association's Help! I've found an animal pageExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If an animal appears sick or hurt, call animal control to help. Do not touch young animals that appear to be abandoned. Often their parents are close by waiting for you to leave before they return to their young.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect wildlife in your national parks and local recreational areas by staying on trails and following visitor guidelines, including those for trash disposal.

### Protect yourself from disease

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Make washing your hands a routine practice before eating or drinking![man applying insect repellent](/healthypets/images/repellent.jpg)

and whenever you return from outside.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Take care of bites and scratches: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wash wounds well with soap and running water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact your health care provider right away.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * If you seek medical attention, make sure to tell them if you have had exposure to wildlife.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep bugs away: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use a mosquito and tick repellent when spending time outdoors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use a monthly flea and tick preventive on your pets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ask your veterinarian how to protect your pets from wildlife diseases such as rabies, leptospirosis, and giardia.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Call animal control right away if an animal, wild or domestic, is acting strangely or out of character.

### Websites

**Rabies**

Rabies (For Kids)  
CDC site especially designed for children

World Rabies DayExternal  
GARC: rabiesalliance.org

Bats and Rabies  
CDC rabies site

Rabies multimedia  
CDC Rabies site: podcasts, videos, eCards, and more

**Rodent and bat control**

Rodent Control  
CDC Rodents site

Keeping Bats Out Of Your House  
CDC Rabies site

Disease Vectors and Pests  
CDC Healthy Housing Reference Manual; highly detailed

**Tick prevention**

Ticks  
CDC comprehensive site

Tick Tactics  
CDC BAM site

Camping Health and Safety Tips  
CDC Family Health site

Tick Management Handbook Cdc-pdf[PDF - 71 pages]External  
CDC and Connecticut Agriculture Experiment Station

Protect Yourself from Ticks and Mosquitos  
CDC NIOSH Fast Facts

### Factsheets

It's Open Season On TicksCdc-pdf [ PDF - 2 pages ]  
CDC Ticks site

### Features

Hunting and Brucellosis  
CDC

Outdoor Safety  
CDC

It's Open Season on Ticks  
CDC

### Podcasts

Zoonoses  
CDC; How foxes, raccoons, and bats play an important role in the ecology of
infectious diseases, such as rabies

Camping Safety  
CDC Kidtastics podcast

### Additional information

Alexander KA, Pleydell E, Williams MC, Lane EP, et al. _Mycobacterium
tuberculosis_ : An Emerging Disease of Free-Ranging Wildlife. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_ [serial on the Internet]. 2005 Jun [Cited Sep 18, 2015].

Bird feeder Maintenance and HygieneExternal  
National Audubon Society

Disease Precautions for HuntersExternal  
American Veterinary Medical Association: highly detailed recommendations

Help! I've Found An AnimalExternal!  
National Wildlife Rehabilitators Association: What to do with orphaned
wildlife

Venomous Snakes  
CDC NIOSH

Raccoon Latrines: Identification and Clean-upCdc-pdf [ PDF - 1 pages ]  
CDC Baylisascaris Infection site

Page last reviewed: October 22, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home Healthy Pets, Healthy People

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Pets & People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets & Other Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Farm Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Backyard Poultry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ferrets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reptiles and Amphibiansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Safe Handling of Pet Reptiles & Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rodents Used for Pet Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Small Mammalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Salmonella_ from Small Mammals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pet Rodents 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wildlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cat-Scratch Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _E. coli_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Specific Groups & Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Teachers & Daycare Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Exhibit Visitors & Managers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infants and Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * US Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Antibiotic Resistance in Pets and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How to Stay Healthy around Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy Around Small Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Healthy Around Pet Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Safe and Healthy While Feeding Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Checking Pets for Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Pet Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Families and Flocks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pet Food Safety _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trouble with Tiny Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trouble with Tiny Turtles _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Safety in Emergenciesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pets in Evacuation Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Safety in Emergencies _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Disaster Preparedness Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets & Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digital Press Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Connect With Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New & Noteworthy

![Badge for One Health](/healthypets/images/one-health-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

