Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000680.htm    
                                Description: Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. This covering is called the meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000680.htm

# Meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal
cord. This covering is called the meninges.

## Causes

The most common causes of meningitis are viral infections. These infections
usually get better without treatment. But, bacterial meningitis infections are
very serious. They may result in death or brain damage, even if treated.

Meningitis may also be caused by:

    * Chemical irritation
    * Drug allergies
    * Fungi
    * Parasites
    * Tumors 

Many types of viruses can cause meningitis:

    * Enteroviruses: These are viruses that also can cause intestinal illness.
    * Herpes viruses: These are the same viruses that can cause cold sores and genital herpes. However, people with cold sores or genital herpes do not have a higher chance of developing herpes meningitis.
    * Mumps and HIV viruses.
    * West Nile virus: This virus is spread by mosquito bites and has become an important cause of viral meningitis in most of the United States. 

## Symptoms

Enteroviral meningitis occurs more often than bacterial meningitis and is
milder. It usually occurs in the late summer and early fall. It most often
affects children and adults under age 30. Symptoms may include:

    * Headache
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Slight fever
    * Upset stomach and diarrheaÂ 
    * Fatigue 

Bacterial meningitis is an emergency. You will need immediate treatment in a
hospital. Symptoms usually come on quickly, and may include:

    * Fever and chills, especially in newborns and children
    * Mental status changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Severe headache
    * Stiff neck 

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Agitation
    * Bulging fontanelles in babies
    * Decreased alertness
    * Poor feeding or irritability in children
    * Rapid breathing
    * Unusual posture, with the head and neck arched backward (opisthotonos) 

You cannot tell if you have bacterial or viral meningitis by how you feel.
Your health care provider must find out the cause. Go to the hospital
emergency department right away if you think you have symptoms of meningitis.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will examine you. This may show:

    * Fast heart rate
    * Fever
    * Mental status changes
    * Stiff neck 

If the provider thinks you have meningitis, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
should be done to remove a sample of spinal fluid (cerebrospinal fluid, or
CSF) for testing.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial meningitis. AntibioticsÂ do notÂ treat
viral meningitis. But antiviral medicine may be given to those with herpes
meningitis.

Other treatments will include:

    * Fluids through a vein (IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, such as brain swelling, shock, and seizures

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early diagnosis and treatment of bacterial meningitis is essential to prevent
permanent neurological damage. Viral meningitis is usually not serious, and
symptoms should disappear within 2 weeks with no lasting complications.

## Possible Complications

Without prompt treatment, meningitis may result in the following:

    * Brain damage
    * Buildup of fluid between the skull and brain (subdural effusion)
    * Hearing loss
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus)
    * Seizures
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you think that you or your child has symptoms of meningitis, get emergency
medical help immediately. Early treatment is key to a good outcome.

## Prevention

Certain vaccines can help prevent some types of bacterial meningitis:

    * Haemophilus vaccine (HiB vaccine) given to children helps
    * Pneumococcal vaccine is given to children and adults
    * Meningococcal vaccine is given to children and adults; some communities hold vaccination campaigns after an outbreak of meningococcal meningitis. 

Household members and others in close contact with people who have
meningococcal meningitis should receive antibiotics to prevent becoming
infected.

## Alternative Names

Meningitis - bacterial; Meningitis - viral; Meningitis - fungal; Meningitis -
vaccine

## Patient Instructions

    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## Images

    * ![Brudzinski's sign of meningitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19069t.jpg)Brudzinski's sign of meningitis
    * ![Kernig's sign of meningitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19077t.jpg)Kernig's sign of meningitis
    * ![Lumbar puncture \(spinal tap\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19078t.jpg)Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
    * ![Meninges of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19080t.jpg)Meninges of the brain
    * ![Meninges of the spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19088t.jpg)Meninges of the spine
    * ![Haemophilus influenza organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2930t.jpg)Haemophilus influenza organism

## References

Nath A. Meningitis: bacterial, viral, and other. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 412.

Tunkel AR, Van de Beek D, Scheld WM. Acute meningitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

