Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000211.htm    
                                Description: Amebic liver abscess is a collection of pus in the liver in response to an intestinal parasite called Entamoeba histolytica.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amebic liver abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000211.htm

# Amebic liver abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amebic liver abscess is a collection of pus in the liver in response to an
intestinal parasite called _Entamoeba histolytica_.

## Causes

Amebic liver abscess is caused by _Entamoeba histolytica._ This parasite
causes amebiasis, an intestinal infection that is also called amebic
dysentery. After an infection has occurred, the parasite may be carried by the
bloodstream from the intestines to the liver.

Amebiasis spreads from eating food or water that has been contaminated with
feces. This is sometimes due to the use of human waste as fertilizer.Â
Amebiasis is also spreadÂ through person-to-person contact.

The infection occurs worldwide. It is most common in tropical areas where
crowded living conditions and poor sanitation exist. Africa, Latin America,
Southeast Asia, and India have significant health problems from this disease.

Risk factors for amebic liver abscess include:

    * Recent travel to a tropical region
    * Alcoholism
    * Cancer
    * Immunosuppression, including HIV/AIDS infection
    * Malnutrition
    * Old age
    * Pregnancy
    * Steroid use

## Symptoms

There are usually no symptoms of intestinal infection. But people with amebic
liver abscess do have symptoms, including:

    * Abdominal pain, more so in the right, upper part of the abdomen; pain is intense, continuous or stabbing 
    * Cough
    * Fever and chills
    * Diarrhea, non-bloody (in only one-third of patients)
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Hiccups that do not stop (rare)
    * Jaundice (yellowing of the skin, mucous membranes, or eyes)
    * Loss of appetite
    * Sweating
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination. You'll be asked
about your symptoms and recent travel. Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal CT scan or MRI
    * Complete blood count
    * Liver abscess aspiration to check for bacterial infection in the liver abscess
    * Liver scan
    * Liver function tests
    * Blood test for amebiasis
    * Stool testing for amebiasis

## Treatment

Antibiotics such as metronidazole (Flagyl) or tinidazole (Tindamax) are the
usual treatment for liver abscess. A drug such as paromomycin or diloxanide
must also be taken to get rid of all the ameba in the intestine andÂ to
prevent the disease from coming back. This treatment can usually wait until
after the abscess has been treated.

In rare cases, the abscess may need to be drained using a catheter or surgery
to relieve some of the abdominal pain and to increase chances of treatment
success.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, the abscess may break open (rupture) and spread into other
organs, leading to death. People who are treated have a very high chance of a
complete cure or only minor complications.

## Possible Complications

The abscess may rupture into the abdominal cavity, the lining of the lungs,
the lungs, or the sac around the heart. The infection can also spread to the
brain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this disease, especially if you
have recently traveled to an area where the disease is known to occur.

## Prevention

When traveling in tropical countries with poor sanitation, drink purified
water and do not eat uncooked vegetables or unpeeled fruit.

## Alternative Names

Hepatic amebiasis; Extraintestinal amebiasis; Abscess - amebic liver

## Images

    * ![Liver cell death](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8814t.jpg)Liver cell death
    * ![Amebic liver abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/24341t.jpg)Amebic liver abscess

## References

Huston CD. Intestinal protozoa. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 113.

Petri WA, Haque R. Entamoeba species, including amebic colitis and liver
abscess. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 274.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

