Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001519.htm    
                                Description: An anorectal abscess is a collection of pus in the area of the anus and rectum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anorectal abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001519.htm

# Anorectal abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An anorectal abscess is a collection of pus in the area of the anus and
rectum.

## Causes

Common causes of anorectal abscess include:

    * Blocked glands in the anal area
    * Infection of an anal fissure
    * Sexually transmitted infection (STD)
    * Trauma

Deep rectal abscesses may be caused by intestinal disorders such as Crohn
disease or diverticulitis.

The following factors increase the risk for an anorectal abscess:

    * Anal sex 
    * Chemotherapy medicines used to treat cancer 
    * Diabetes
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis) 
    * Use of corticosteroid medicines 
    * Weakened immune system (such as from HIV/AIDS) 

The condition affects men more than women. The condition may occur in infants
and toddlers who are still in diapers and who have a history of anal fissures.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms are swelling around the anus and a constant, throbbing pain
with swelling. Pain may be severe with bowel movements, coughing and sitting.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Constipation
    * Discharge of pus from the rectum
    * Fatigue, fever, night sweats, and chills
    * Redness, painful and hardened tissue in the area of the anus 
    * Tenderness

In infants, the abscess often appears as a swollen, red, tender lump at the
edge of the anus. The infant may be fussy and irritable from discomfort. There
areÂ usually no other symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

A rectal examination may confirm an anorectal abscess. A proctosigmoidoscopy
may be done to rule out other diseases.

In some cases, a CT scan, MRI, or ultrasound is needed to help locate the
collection of pus.

## Treatment

The problem rarely goes away on its own. Antibiotics alone usually cannot
treat an abscess.

Treatment involves surgery to open and drain the abscess.

    * Surgery is usually done with local numbing medicine, along with medicine to make you sleepy. Sometimes, spinal or general anesthesia is used.
    * Surgery is most often an outpatient procedure, which means that you go home on the same day. The surgeon cuts open the abscess and drains the pus. Sometimes a drain is put in to keep the incision open and draining, and sometimes the abscess cavity is packed with gauze.
    * If the pus collection is deep, you may need to stay in the hospital longer for pain control and nursing care of the abscess drainage site.
    * After surgery, you may need warm sitz baths (sitting in a tub of warm water). This helps relieve pain and reduce swelling.

Drained abscesses are usually left open and no stitches are needed.

The surgeon may prescribe painkillers and antibiotics.

You may need stool softeners. Practice good hygiene. Eat soft or liquid foods
until the abscess has healed.

Avoiding constipation will help decrease pain. You may need stool softeners.
Drinking fluids and eating foods with lots of fiber can also help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With prompt treatment, people with this condition usually do well. Infants and
toddlers usually recover quickly.

Complications can occur when treatment is delayed.

## Possible Complications

Complications of anorectal abscess may include:

    * Anal fistula (abnormal connection between the anus and another structure)
    * Infection that spreads to the blood (sepsis)
    * Continuing pain
    * Problem keeps coming back (recurrence)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you:

    * Notice rectal discharge, pain, or other symptoms of anorectal abscess
    * Have fever, chills, or other new symptoms after being treated for this condition
    * Are a diabetic and your blood glucose becomes difficult to control

## Prevention

Prevention or prompt treatment of STDs may prevent an anorectal abscess from
forming. Use condoms during intercourse, including anal sex, to prevent such
infections.

In infants and toddlers, frequent diaper changes and proper cleaning during
diaper changes can help prevent both anal fissures and abscesses.

## Alternative Names

Anal abscess; Rectal abscess; Perirectal abscess; Perianal abscess; Gland
abscess; Abscess - anorectal

## Images

    * ![Rectum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9390t.jpg)Rectum

## References

Coates WC. Anorectal procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds.
_Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Merchea A, Larson DW. Anus. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 52.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Disorders _Read more_

![Rectal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RectalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Rectal
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

