Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000212.htm    
                                Description: An abdominal abscess is a pocket of infected fluid and pus located inside the belly (abdominal cavity). This type of abscess can be located near or inside the liver, pancreas, kidneys or other organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abscess - abdomen or pelvis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000212.htm

# Abscess - abdomen or pelvis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abdominal abscess is a pocket of infected fluid and pus located inside the
belly (abdominal cavity). This type of abscess can be located near or inside
the liver, pancreas, kidneys or other organs. There can be one or more
abscesses.

## Causes

You can get abdominal abscesses because you have:

    * A burst appendix
    * A burst or leaking intestine
    * A burst ovary
    * Inflammatory bowel disease
    * Infection in your gallbladder, pancreas, ovary or other organs
    * Pelvic infection
    * Parasite infection

You are more at risk for an abdominal abscess if you have:

    * Trauma
    * Perforated ulcer disease
    * Surgery in your belly area
    * Weakened immune system

Germs may pass through your blood to an organ in your belly. Sometimes, no
reason can be found for an abscess.

## Symptoms

Pain or discomfort in the belly that does not go away is a common symptom.
This pain:

    * May be found only in one area of your belly or over most of your belly
    * May be sharp or dull
    * May become worse over time 

Depending on where the abscess is located, you may have:

    * Pain in your back
    * Pain in your chest or shoulder 

Other symptoms of an abdominal abscess may be a lot like symptoms of having
the flu. You may have:

    * Swollen belly
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever or chills
    * Lack of appetite and possible weight loss
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Weakness
    * Cough 

## Exams and Tests

Your symptoms can be a sign of many different problems. Your health care
provider will do some tests to help determine if you have an abdominal
abscess. These may include the following tests:

    * Complete blood count \-- A high white blood cell count is a possible sign of an abscess of other infection.
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel -- This will show any liver, kidney or blood problems. 

Other tests that should show abdominal abscesses:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen and pelvis
    * CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis
    * MRI of the abdomen and pelvis 

## Treatment

Your health care team will try to identify and treat the cause of the abscess.
Your abscess will be treated with antibiotics, drainage of the pus, or both.
At first, you will likely receive care in the hospital.

ANTIBIOTICS

You will be given antibiotics to treat the abscess. You will take them for up
to 4 to 6 weeks.

    * You will start on IV antibiotics in the hospital and you may receive IV antibiotics at home.
    * You then may change to pills. Be sure you take all of your antibiotics, even if you feel better. 

DRAINAGE

Your abscess needs to be drained of pus. Your provider and you will decide the
best way to do this.

 **Using a needle and drain** \-- Your provider puts a needle through the skin
and into the abscess. Usually, this is done with the help of x-rays to make
sure the needle is inserted into the abscess.

Your provider will give you medicine to make you sleepy, and medicine to numb
the skin before the needle is inserted into the skin.

A sample of the abscess will be sent to the lab. This helps your provider
choose which antibiotics to use.

A drain is left in the abscess so that pus can drain out. Usually, the drain
is kept in for days or weeks until the abscess gets better.

 **Having surgery** \-- Sometimes, a surgeon does surgery to clean out the
abscess. You will be put under general anesthesia so that you are asleep for
the surgery. Surgery may be needed if:

    * Your abscess cannot be reached safely using a needle through the skin
    * Your appendix, intestines, or another organ has burst 

The surgeon will make a cut into the belly area. Laparotomy involves a larger
cut. Laparoscopy uses a very small cut and a laparoscope (a tiny video
camera). The surgeon will then:

    * Clean and drain the abscess.
    * Put a drain into the abscess. The drain stays in until the abscess gets better. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you respond to treatment depends on the cause of the abscess and how
bad the infection is. It also depends on your overall health. Usually,
antibiotics and drainage takes care of abdominal abscesses that have not
spread.

You may need more than one operation. Sometimes, an abscess will come back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * The abscess may not drain fully.
    * The abscess may come back (recur).
    * The abscess may cause severe illness and a bloodstream infection.
    * The infection could spread.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Fevers
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Changes in bowel habits

## Alternative Names

Abscess - intra-abdominal; Pelvic abscess

## Images

    * ![Intra-abdominal abscess - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1171t.jpg)Intra-abdominal abscess - CT scan
    * ![Meckel diverticulum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8766t.jpg)Meckel diverticulum

## References

De Prisco G, Celinski S, Spak CW. Abdominal abscesses and gastrointestinal
fistulas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

Shapiro NI, Jones AE. Sepsis syndromes. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 130.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

