Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007591.htm    
                                Description: A pilonidal cyst is a pocket that forms around a hair follicle in the crease between the buttocks. The area may look like a small pit or pore in the skin that contains a dark spot or hair. Sometimes the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Surgery for pilonidal cyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007591.htm

# Surgery for pilonidal cyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pilonidal cyst is a pocket that forms around a hair follicle in the crease
between the buttocks. The area may look like a small pit or pore in the skin
that contains a dark spot or hair. Sometimes the cyst can become infected, and
this is called a pilonidal abscess.

## Description

An infected pilonidal cyst or abscess requires surgical drainage. It will not
heal with antibiotic medicines. If you continue to have infections, the
pilonidal cyst can be removed by surgery.

There are several types of surgery.

 **Incision and drainage --** This is the most common treatment for an
infected cyst. It is a simple procedure done in the doctor's office.

    * Local anesthesia is used to numb the skin.
    * A cut is made in the cyst to drain fluid and pus. The hole is packed with gauze and left open.
    * Afterward, it can take up to 4 weeks for the cyst to heal. The gauze has to be changed often during this time. 

**Pilonidal cystectomy --** If you keep having problems with a pilonidal cyst,
it can be removed surgically. This procedure is done as an outpatient
procedure, so you will not need to spend the night in the hospital.

    * You may be given medicine (general anesthesia) that keeps you asleep and pain-free. Or, you may be given medicine (regional anesthesia) that numbs you from the waist down. In rare cases, you may only be given local numbing medicine.
    * A cut is made to remove the skin with the pores and the underlying tissue with the hair follicles.
    * Depending on how much tissue is removed, the area may or may not be packed with gauze. Sometimes a tube is placed to drain fluid that collects after surgery. The tube is removed at a later time when the fluid stops draining. 

It may be hard to remove the entire cyst, so there is a chance that it will
come back.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Surgery is needed to drain and remove a pilonidal cyst that does not heal.

    * Your doctor may recommend this procedure if you have pilonidal disease that is causing pain or infection.
    * A pilonidal cyst that is not causing symptoms does not need treatment. 

Non-surgical treatment may be used if the area is not infected:

    * Shaving or laser removal of hair around the cyst
    * Injection of surgical glue into the cyst 

## Risks

Pilonidal cyst resection is generally safe. Ask your doctor about these
complications:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Taking a long time for the area to heal
    * Having the pilonidal cyst come back

## Before the Procedure

Meet with your doctor to make sure medical problems, such as diabetes, high
blood pressure, and heart or lung problems are in good control.

Tell your health care provider:

    * What medicines, vitamins, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription.
    * If you are or could be pregnant.
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you are a smoker, stop smoking several weeks before the surgery. Your provider can help.
    * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), vitamin E, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines like these.
    * Ask your doctor which medicines you should take on the day of your surgery. 

On the day of the surgery:

    * Follow instructions about whether you need to stop eating or drinking before surgery.
    * Take the medicines your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

After the procedure:

    * You can go home after the procedure.
    * The wound will be covered with a bandage.
    * You will get pain medicines.
    * It is very important to keep the area around the wound clean.
    * Your provider will show you how to care for your wound.
    * After it heals, shaving the hair in the wound area may help prevent pilonidal disease from coming back.Â 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pilonidal cysts come back in about one half of the people who have surgery the
first time. Even after a second surgery, it may come back.

## Alternative Names

Pilonidal abscess; Pilonidal dimple; Pilonidal disease; Pilonidal cyst;
Pilonidal sinus

## References

Johnson EK, Vogel JD, Cowan ML, et al. The American Society of Colon and
Rectal Surgeons' clinical practice guidelines for the management of pilonidal
disease. _Dis Colon Rectum_. 2019;62(2):146-157. PMID: 30640830
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30640830.

Merchea A, Larson DW. Anus. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

Wells K, Pendola M. Pilonidal disease and perianal hidradenitis. In: Yeo CJ,
ed. _Shackelford's Surgery of the Alimentary Tract_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 153.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Tailbone
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TailboneDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tailbone
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

