Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000984.htm    
                                Description: Retropharyngeal abscess is a collection of pus in the tissues in the back of the throat. It can be a life-threatening medical condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retropharyngeal abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000984.htm

# Retropharyngeal abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retropharyngeal abscess is a collection of pus in the tissues in the back of
the throat. It can be a life-threatening medical condition.

## Causes

Retropharyngeal abscess most often affects children under age 5, but it can
occur at any age.

Infected material (pus) builds up in the space around the tissues at the back
of the throat. This can occur during or very soon after a throat infection.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Drooling
    * High fever
    * High-pitched sound when inhaling (stridor)
    * Muscles between the ribs pull in when breathing (intercostal retractions)
    * Severe throat pain
    * Difficulty turning the head 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and look inside the
throat. The provider may gently rub the back of the throat with a cotton swab.
This is to take a sample of tissue to check it more closely. It is called a
throat culture.

Other tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the neck
    * X-ray of the neck 
    * Fiber optic endoscopy

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to drain the infected area. Corticosteroids are sometimes
given to reduce airway swelling. High-dose antibiotics are given through a
vein (intravenous) to treat the infection.

The airway will be protected so that it does not become completely blocked by
the swelling.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It is important to get medical help right away. This condition can lead to
blockage of the airway. This is life threatening. With prompt treatment, a
full recovery is expected.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Airway obstruction
    * Aspiration
    * Mediastinitis
    * Osteomyelitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child develops a high fever with severe
throat pain.

Get medical help right away if you have:

    * Breathing trouble
    * High-pitched breathing sounds (stridor)
    * Retraction of the muscles between the ribs when breathing
    * Difficulty turning the head
    * Difficulty swallowing

## Prevention

Prompt diagnosis and treatment of a sore throat or upper respiratory infection
can prevent this problem.

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Oropharynx](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9555t.jpg)Oropharynx

## References

Melio FR. Upper respiratory tract infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 65.

Meyer A. Pediatric infectious disease. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 197.

Pappas DE, Hendley JO. Retropharyngeal abscess, lateral pharyngeal
(parapharyngeal) abscess, and peritonsillar cellulitis/abscess. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 382.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

