Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000270.htm    
                                Description: A pancreatic abscess is an area filled with pus within the pancreas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreatic abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000270.htm

# Pancreatic abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pancreatic abscess is an area filled with pus within the pancreas.

## Causes

Pancreatic abscesses develop in people who have:

    * Pancreatic pseudocysts
    * Severe pancreatitisÂ that becomes infected

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal mass
    * Abdominal pain
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Inability to eat
    * Nausea and vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Most people with pancreatic abscesses have had pancreatitis. However, the
complication often takes 7 or more days to develop.

Signs of an abscess can be seen on:

    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * MRI of the abdomen
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen 

Blood culture will show high white blood cell count.

## Treatment

It may be possible to drain the abscess through the skin (percutaneous).
Abscess drainage can be done through an endoscope using endoscopic ultrasound
(EUS) in some cases. Surgery to drain the abscess and remove dead tissue is
often needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how severe the infection is. The death rate
from undrained pancreatic abscesses is very high.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Multiple abscesses
    * Sepsis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Abdominal pain with fever
    * Other signs of a pancreatic abscess, especially if you have recently had a pancreatic pseudocyst or pancreatitis

## Prevention

Draining a pancreatic pseudocyst may help prevent some cases of pancreatic
abscess. However, in many cases, the disorder is not preventable.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8883t.jpg)Pancreas

## References

Barshak MB. Pancreatic infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 78.

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Van Buren G, Fisher WE. Acute and chronic pancreatitis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope
ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:163-170.

## Review Date 10/25/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

