Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003382.htm    
                                Description: A radioactive scan detects abscesses or infections in the body by using a radioactive material. An abscess occurs when pus collects due to an infection.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Indium-labelled WBC scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003382.htm

# Indium-labelled WBC scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A radioactive scan detects abscesses or infections in the body by using a
radioactive material. An abscess occurs when pus collects due to an infection.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is drawn from a vein, most often on the inside of the elbow or the back
of the hand.

    * The site is cleaned with germ-killing medicine (antiseptic).
    * The health care provider wraps an elastic band around the upper arm to apply pressure to the area and make the vein swell with blood.
    * Next, the provider gently inserts a needle into the vein. The blood collects into an airtight vial or tube attached to the needle.
    * The elastic band is removed from your arm.
    * The puncture site is covered to stop any bleeding. 

The blood sample is then sent to a lab. There the white blood cells are tagged
with a radioactive substance (radioisotope) called indium. The cells are then
injected back into a vein through another needle stick.

You will need to return to the office 6 to 24 hours later. At that time, you
will have a nuclear scan to see if white blood cells have gathered in areas of
your body where they would not be normally located.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time you do not need special preparation. You will need to sign a
consent form.

For the test, you will need to wear a hospital gown or loose clothing. You
will need to take off all jewelry.

Tell your provider if you are pregnant. This procedure is NOT recommended if
you are pregnant or trying to become pregnant. Women of childbearing age
(before menopause) should use some form of birth control during the course of
this procedure.

Tell your provider if you have or had any of the following medical conditions,
procedures, or treatments, as they can interfere with test results:

    * Gallium (Ga) scan within the past month
    * Hemodialysis
    * Hyperglycemia
    * Long-term antibiotic therapy
    * Steroid therapy
    * Total parenteral nutrition (through an IV) 

## How the Test will Feel

Some people feel a little pain when the needle is inserted to draw blood.
Others feel only a prick or sting. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

The nuclear medicine scan is painless. It may be a little uncomfortable to lie
flat and still on the scanning table. This most often takes about an hour.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is rarely used today. In some cases, it may be helpful when doctors
cannot localize an infection. The most common reason it is used is to look for
a bone infection called osteomyelitis.

It is also used to look for an abscess that may form after surgery or on its
own. Symptoms of an abscess depend on where it is found, but may include:

    * Fever that has lasted a few weeks without an explanation
    * Not feeling well (malaise)
    * Pain 

Other imaging tests such as an ultrasound or CT scan are often done first.

## Normal Results

Normal findings would show no abnormal gathering of white blood cells.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A gathering of white blood cells outside of the normal areas is a sign of
either an abscess or other type of inflammatory process.

Abnormal results may include:

    * Bone infection
    * Abdominal abscess
    * Anorectal abscess
    * Epidural abscess
    * Peritonsillar abscess
    * Pyogenic liver abscess
    * Skin abscess
    * Tooth abscess

## Risks

The risks of this test include:

    * Some bruising may occur at the site of injection.
    * There is always a slight chance of infection when the skin is broken.
    * There is low-level radiation exposure. 

The test is controlled so that you get only the smallest amount of radiation
exposure needed to produce the image. Most experts feel that the risk is very
low compared with the benefits.

Pregnant women and children are more sensitive to the risks of radiation.

## Alternative Names

Radioactive abscess scan; Abscess scan; Indium scan; Indium-labeled white
blood cell scan; WBC scan

## References

Berbari EF, Steckelberg JM, Osmon DR. Osteomyelitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_ , _Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 106.

Hutton BF, Segerman D, Miles KA. Radionuclide and hybrid imaging. In: Adam A,
Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's
Diagnostic Radiology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 6.

Matteson EL, Osmon DR. Infections of bursae, joints, and bones. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 272.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

