Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001489.htm    
                                Description: Bartholin abscess is the buildup of pus that forms a lump (swelling) in one of the Bartholin glands. These glands are found on each side of the vaginal opening.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bartholin cyst or abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001489.htm

# Bartholin cyst or abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bartholin abscess is the buildup of pus that forms a lump (swelling) in one of
the Bartholin glands. These glands are found on each side of the vaginal
opening.

## Causes

A Bartholin abscess forms when a small opening (duct) from the gland gets
blocked. Fluid in the gland builds up and may become infected. Fluid may build
up over many years before an abscess occurs.

Often the abscess appears quickly over several days. The area will become very
hot and swollen. Activity that puts pressure on the vulva, and walking and
sitting, may cause severe pain.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * A tender lump on either side of the vaginal opening
    * Swelling and redness
    * Pain with sitting or walking
    * Fever, in people with low immunity
    * Pain with sexual intercourse

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a pelvic exam. The Bartholin gland will be
enlarged and tender. In rare cases, a biopsy may be suggested in older women
to look for a tumor.

Any vaginal discharge or fluid drainage will be sent to a lab for testing.

## Treatment

SELF-CARE STEPS

Soaking in warm water 4 times a day for several days can ease the discomfort.
It can also help the abscess open and drain on its own. However, the opening
is often very small and closes quickly. Therefore, the abscess often returns.

DRAINAGE OF THE ABSCESS

A small surgical cut can completely drain the abscess. This relieves symptoms
and provides the fastest recovery.

    * The procedure can be done under local anesthesia in a provider's office.
    * A 1 to 2 cm cut is made at the site of abscess. The cavity is irrigated with normal saline. A catheter (tube) may be inserted and left in place for 4 to 6 weeks. This allows continuous drainage while the area heals. Sutures are not required.
    * You should begin soaking in warm water 1 to 2 days afterward. You cannot have sexual intercourse until the catheter is removed. 

You may be asked to have antibiotics if there is pus or other signs of
infection.

MARSUPIALIZATION

Women can also be treated with a minor surgery called marsupialization.

    * The procedure involves creating an elliptical opening along the cyst to help the gland drain. The abscess is removed. The provider places stitches at the edges of the cyst.
    * The procedure can sometimes be done in the clinic with medicine to numb the area. In other cases, it may need to be done in the hospital with general anesthesia so that you are asleep and pain-free.
    * You should begin soaking in warm water 1 to 2 days afterward. You cannot have sexual intercourse for 4 weeks after surgery.
    * You can use oral pain medicines after the procedure. Your provider may prescribe narcotic pain medicines if you need them. 

Your provider may recommend that the glands be completely removed if abscesses
keep coming back.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The chance of a full recovery is excellent. The abscesses may return in few
cases.

It is important to treat any vaginal infection that is diagnosed at the same
time as the abscess.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You notice a painful, swollen lump on the labia near the vagina opening and it does not improve with 2 to 3 days of home treatment.
    * Pain is severe and interferes with your normal activity.
    * You haveÂ one of these cysts and develop a fever higher than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C).

## Alternative Names

Abscess - Bartholin; Infected Bartholin gland

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy

## References

Ambrose G, Berlin D. Incision and drainage. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 37.

Benner D, Sushereba E. Bartholin's gland cyst and abscess. In: Ferri FF, ed.
_Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:201.e3-201.e5.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Smith RP. Bartholin gland cyst/abscess drainage. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's
Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 251.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Vaginal
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

