Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000863.htm    
                                Description: A skin abscess is a buildup of pus in or on the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000863.htm

# Skin abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin abscess is a buildup of pus in or on the skin.

## Causes

Skin abscesses are common and affect people of all ages. They occur when an
infection causes pus to collect in the skin.

Skin abscesses may occur after developing:

    * A bacterial infection (often staphylococcus)
    * A minor wound or injury
    * Boils
    * Folliculitis (infection in a hair follicle)

A skin abscess may occur anywhere on the body.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fever or chills, in some cases
    * Local swelling around the infected spot
    * Hardened skin tissue
    * Skin lesion that may be an open or closed sore, or a raised area
    * Redness, tenderness, and warmth in the area
    * Fluid or pus drainage 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose the problem by looking at the affected
area. The drainage from the sore may be sent to the lab for a culture. This
can help identify the cause of the infection.

## Treatment

You can apply moist heat (such as warm compresses) to help the abscess drain
and heal faster. DO NOT push and squeeze on the abscess.

Your provider may cut open the abscess and drain it. If this is done:

    * Numbing medicine will be put on your skin.
    * Packing material may be left in the wound to help it heal.

You may need to take antibiotics by mouth to control the infection.

If you have methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA) or another
staph infection, follow instructions for self-care at home.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most skin abscesses can be cured with proper treatment. Infections caused by
MRSA respond to specific antibiotics.

## Possible Complications

Complications that can occur from an abscess include:

    * Spread of the infection in the same area
    * Spread of the infection into the blood and throughout the body
    * Tissue death (gangrene) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any signs of skin infection, including:

    * Drainage of any kind
    * Fever
    * Pain
    * Redness
    * Swelling 

Call your provider right away if you develop new symptoms during or after
treatment of a skin abscess.

## Prevention

Keep the skin around minor wounds clean and dry to prevent infection. Call
your provider if you notice signs of infection. Take care ofÂ minor infections
promptly.

## Alternative Names

Abscess - skin; Cutaneous abscess; Subcutaneous abscess; MRSA - abscess; Staph
infection - abscess

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Ambrose G, Berlin D. Incision and drainage. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 37.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Localized erythema. In: Marks JG, Miller JJ, eds.
_Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 15.

Que Y-A, Moreillon P. _Staphylococcus aureus_ (including staphylococcal toxic
shock syndrome). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, UpdatedÂ
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 196.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

