Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001353.htm    
                                Description: An abscess is a collection of pus in any part of the body. In most cases, the area around an abscess is swollen and inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001353.htm

# Abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abscess is a collection of pus in any part of the body. In most cases, the
area around an abscess is swollen and inflamed.

## Causes

Abscesses occur when an area of tissue becomes infected and the body's immune
system tries to fight it. White blood cells (WBCs) move through the walls of
the blood vessels into the area of the infection and collect in the damaged
tissue. During this process, pus forms. Pus is the buildup of fluid, living
and dead white blood cells, dead tissue, and bacteria or other foreign
substances.

Abscesses can form in almost any part of the body. The skin, under the skin,
and the teeth are the most common sites. Abscesses may be caused by bacteria,
parasites, and foreign substances.

Abscesses in the skin are easy to see. They are red, raised, and painful.
Abscesses in other areas of the body may not be seen, but they may cause organ
damage.

Types and locations of abscesses include:

    * Abdominal abscess
    * Amebic liver abscess
    * Anorectal abscess
    * Bartholin abscess
    * Brain abscess
    * Epidural abscess
    * Peritonsillar abscess
    * Pyogenic liver abscess
    * Skin abscess
    * Spinal cord abscess
    * Subcutaneous abscess
    * Tooth abscess

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, focusing on the
symptoms of the abscess.

Tests to locate the abscess include:

    * Ultrasound
    * CT scan
    * MRI scan

Often, a sample of fluid will be taken from the abscess and tested to see what
type of germ is causing the problem.

## Treatment

Treatment varies, but often surgery to drain the abscess, antibiotics, or both
are needed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think that you have any type of abscess.

## Prevention

Preventing abscesses depends on where they develop. For example, good hygiene
can help prevent skin abscesses. Dental hygiene and routine care will prevent
tooth abscesses.

## Images

    * ![Amebic brain abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1047t.jpg)Amebic brain abscess
    * ![Pyogenic abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18085t.jpg)Pyogenic abscess
    * ![Tooth abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9979t.jpg)Tooth abscess
    * ![Intra-abdominal abscess - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1171t.jpg)Intra-abdominal abscess - CT scan

## References

Ambrose G, Berlin D. Incision and drainage. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts & Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine
and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 37.

De Prisco G, Celinski S, Spak CW. Abdominal abscesses and gastrointestinal
fistulas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

Tunkel AR. Brain abscess. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 92.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

