Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000261.htm    
                                Description: Pyogenic liver abscess is a pus-filled area in the liver. Pyogenic means producing pus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pyogenic liver abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000261.htm

# Pyogenic liver abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pyogenic liver abscess is a pus-filled area in the liver. Pyogenic means
producing pus.

## Causes

There are many possible causes of liver abscesses, including:

    * Abdominal infection, such as appendicitis, diverticulitis, or a perforated bowel
    * Infection in the blood
    * Infection of the bile draining tubes
    * Recent endoscopy of the bile draining tubes
    * Trauma that damages the liver

A number of common bacteria may cause liver abscesses. In most cases, more
than one type of bacteria is found.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of liver abscess may include:

    * Chest pain (lower right)
    * Pain in the right upper abdomen (more common) or throughout the abdomen (less common)
    * Clay-colored stools
    * Dark urine
    * Fever, chills, nightsweats
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Unintentional weight loss
    * Weakness
    * Yellow skin (jaundice)
    * Right shoulder pain (referred pain)

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Blood culture for bacteria
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver biopsy
    * Liver function tests

## Treatment

Treatment usually consists of placing a tube through the skin into the liver
to drain the abscess. Less often, surgery is needed. You will also receive
antibiotics for about 4 to 6 weeks. Sometimes, antibiotics alone can cure the
infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition can be life threatening. The risk for death is higher in people
who have many liver abscesses.

## Possible Complications

Life-threatening sepsis can develop.Â Sepsis is an illness in which the body
has a severe inflammatory response to bacteria or other germs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Any symptoms of this disorder
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Confusion or decreased consciousness
    * High fever that doesn't go away
    * Other new symptoms during or after treatment

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of abdominal and other infections may reduce the risk of
developing a liver abscess, but most cases are not preventable.

## Alternative Names

Liver abscess; Bacterial liver abscess; Hepatic abscess

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Pyogenic abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18085t.jpg)Pyogenic abscess
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Kim AY, Chung RT. Bacterial, parasitic, and fungal infections of the liver,
including liver abscesses. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 84.

Sifri CD, Madoff LC. Infections of the liver and biliary system (liver
abscess, cholangitis, cholecystitis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 77.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

