Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001454.htm    
                                Description: Creeping eruption is a human infection with dog or cat hookworm larvae (immature worms).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Creeping eruption

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001454.htm

# Creeping eruption

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Creeping eruption is a human infection with dog or cat hookworm larvae
(immature worms).

## Causes

Hookworm eggs are found in the stool of infected dogs and cats. When the eggs
hatch, the larvae can infest soil and vegetation.

When you come into contact with this infested soil, the larvae can burrow into
your skin. They cause an intense inflammatory response that leads to a rash
and severe itching.

Creeping eruption is more common in countries with warm climates. In the
United States, the Southeast has the highest rates of infection. The main risk
factor for this disease is contact with damp, sandy soil that has been
contaminated with infected cat or dog stool. More children than adults are
infected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of creeping eruption include:

    * Blisters
    * Itching, may be more severe at night
    * Raised, snakelike tracks in the skin that may spread over time, usually about 1 cm (less than one half inch) per day, usually on the feet and legs (severe infections may cause several tracks)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can often diagnose this condition by looking at your
skin. In rare cases, a skin biopsy is done to rule out other conditions. In
very rare cases, a blood test is done to see if you have increased eosinophils
(a type of white blood cell).

## Treatment

Anti-parasitic medicines may be used to treat the infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Creeping eruption often goes away by itself over weeks to months. Treatment
helps the infection go away more quickly.

## Possible Complications

Creeping eruption may lead to these complications:

    * Bacterial skin infections caused by scratching
    * Spread of the infection through the bloodstream to the lungs or small intestine (rare) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you or your child have skin sores
that are:

    * Snake-like
    * Itchy
    * Moving from one area to another

## Prevention

Public sanitation and deworming of dogs and cats have decreased hookworm
infestation in the United States.

Hookworm larvae often enter the body through bare feet, so wearing shoes in
areas where hookworm infestations are known to occur helps prevent infection.

## Alternative Names

Parasite infection - hookworm;Â Cutaneous larvae migrans; Zoonotic hookworm;
Ancylostoma caninum; Ancylostoma braziliensis; Bunostomum phlebotomum;
Uncinaria stenocephala

## Images

    * ![Hookworm - mouth of the organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1001t.jpg)Hookworm - mouth of the organism
    * ![Hookworm - close-up of the organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1002t.jpg)Hookworm - close-up of the organism
    * ![Hookworm - Ancylostoma caninum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1003t.jpg)Hookworm - Ancylostoma caninum
    * ![Cutaneous larva migrans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2049t.jpg)Cutaneous larva migrans
    * ![Strongyloidiasis, creeping eruption on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2626t.jpg)Strongyloidiasis, creeping eruption on the back

## References

Habif TP. Infestations and bites. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

Nash TE. Visceral larva migrans and other uncommon helminth infections. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 292.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

