Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000633.htm    
                                Description: Visceral larva migrans (VLM) is a human infection with certain parasites found in the intestines of dogs and cats.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Visceral larva migrans

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000633.htm

# Visceral larva migrans

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Visceral larva migrans (VLM) is a human infection with certain parasites found
in the intestines of dogs and cats.

## Causes

VLM is caused by roundworms (parasites) that are found in the intestines of
dogs and cats.

Eggs produced by these worms are in the feces of the infected animals. The
feces mix with soil. Humans can get sick if they accidentally eat soil that
has the eggs in it. This can happen by eating fruit or vegetables that were in
contact with infected soil and were not washed thoroughly before eating.
People can also become infected by eating raw liver from a chicken, lamb, or
cow.

Young children with pica are at high risk of getting VLM. Pica is a disorder
involving eating inedible things such as dirt and paint. Most infections in
the United States occur in children who play in areas, such as sandboxes,
which contain soil contaminated by dog or cat feces.

After the worm eggs are swallowed, they break open in the intestine. The worms
travel throughout the body to various organs, such as the lungs, liver, and
eyes. They may also travel to the brain and heart.

## Symptoms

Mild infections may not cause symptoms.

Serious infections may cause these symptoms:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Cough, wheezing
    * Fever 
    * Irritability 
    * Itchy skin (hives)
    * Shortness of breath

If the eyes are infected, loss of vision and crossed eyes can occur.

## Exams and Tests

Usually, people with VLM seek medical care if they have a cough, fever,
wheezing, and other symptoms. They may also have a swollen liver since it's
the organ most affected.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms. If VLM is suspected, tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * Blood tests to detect antibodies to toxocara

## Treatment

This infection usually goes away on its own and may not require treatment.
Some people need to take anti-parasitic drugs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Severe infections involving the brain or heart can result in death, but this
is rare.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur from the infection:

    * Blindness
    * Worsened eyesight
    * Encephalitis (infection of the brain)
    * Heart rhythm problems
    * Difficulty breathing 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop any of these symptoms:

    * Cough
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Eye problems
    * Fever
    * Rash

A full medical exam is needed to rule out VLM. Many conditions cause similar
symptoms.

## Prevention

Prevention includes deworming dogs and cats and preventing them from
defecating in public areas. Children should be kept away from areas where dogs
and cats may defecate.

It is very important to wash your hands thoroughly after touching soil or
after touching cats or dogs. Teach your children to wash their hands
thoroughly after being outdoors or after touching cats or dogs.

DO NOT eat raw liver from a chicken, lamb, or cow.

## Alternative Names

Parasite infection - visceral larva migrans; VLM; Toxocariasis; Ocular larva
migrans; Larva migrans visceralisÂ

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Hotez PJ. Parasitic nematode infections. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan
SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 226.

Kim K, Weiss LM, Tanowitz HB. Parasitic infections. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 39.

Nash TE. Visceral larvaÂ migrans and other uncommon helminth infections. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 292.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

