Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001349.htm    
                                Description: Meningococcemia is an acute and potentially life-threatening infection of the bloodstream.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meningococcemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001349.htm

# Meningococcemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningococcemia is an acute and potentially life-threatening infection of the
bloodstream.

## Causes

Meningococcemia is caused by bacteria called _Neisseria meningitidis_. The
bacteria often live in a person's upper respiratory tract without causing
signs of illness. They can be spread from person to person through respiratory
droplets. For example, you may become infected if you are around someone with
the condition and they sneeze or cough.

Family members and those closely exposed to someone with the condition are at
increased risk. The infection occurs more often in winter and early spring.

## Symptoms

There may be few symptoms at first. Some may include:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Irritability
    * Muscle pain
    * Nausea
    * Rash with very small red or purple spots on the feet or legs

Later symptoms may include:

    * A decline in your level of consciousness
    * Large areas of bleeding under the skin
    * Shock

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

Blood tests will be done to rule out other infections and help confirm
meningococcemia. Such tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * Complete blood count with differential
    * Blood clotting studies 

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Lumbar puncture to get a sample of spinal fluid for Gram stain and culture
    * Skin biopsy and Gram stain
    * Urine analysis

## Treatment

Meningococcemia is a medical emergency. People with this infection are often
admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital, where they are closely
monitored. They may be placed in respiratory isolation for the first 24 hours
to help prevent the spread of the infection to others.

Treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics given through a vein immediately
    * Breathing support
    * Clotting factors or platelet replacement, if bleeding disorders develop
    * Fluids through a vein
    * Medicines to treat low blood pressure
    * Wound care for areas of skin with blood clots 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early treatment results in a good outcome. When shock develops, the outcome is
less certain.

The condition is most life threatening in those who have:

    * A severe bleeding disorder called disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (DIC)
    * Kidney failure
    * Shock 

## Possible Complications

Possible complications of this infection are:

    * Arthritis
    * Bleeding disorder (DIC)
    * Gangrene due to lack of blood supply
    * Inflammation of blood vessels in the skin
    * Inflammation of the heart muscle
    * Inflammation of the heart lining
    * Shock
    * Severe damage to adrenal glands that can lead to low blood pressure (Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room immediately if you have symptoms of meningococcemia.
Call your provider if you have been around someone with the disease.

## Prevention

Preventive antibiotics for family members and other close contacts are often
recommended. Speak with your provider about this option.

A vaccine that covers some, but not all, strains of meningococcus is
recommended for children age 11 or 12. A booster is given at age 16.
Unvaccinated college students who live in dormitories should also consider
receiving this vaccine. It should be given a few weeks before they first move
into the dorm. Talk to your provider about this vaccine.

## Alternative Names

Meningococcal septicemia; Meningococcal blood poisoning; Meningococcal
bacteremia

## References

Marquez L. Meningococcal disease. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 88.

Stephens DS, Apicella MA. _Neisseria meningitidis_. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 213.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MeningococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Meningococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

