Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001325.htm    
                                Description: Anthrax is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium called Bacillus anthracis. Infection in humans most often involves the skin, gastrointestinal tract, or lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anthrax

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001325.htm

# Anthrax

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anthrax is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium called _Bacillus
anthracis_. Infection in humans most often involves the skin, gastrointestinal
tract, or lungs.

## Causes

Anthrax commonly affects hoofed animals such as sheep, cattle, and goats.
Humans who come into contact with infected animals can get sick with anthrax
as well.

There areÂ three main routes of anthrax infection: skin (cutaneous), lung
(inhalation), and mouth (gastrointestinal).

Cutaneous anthrax occurs when anthrax spores enter the body through a cut or
scrape on the skin.

    * It is the most common type of anthrax infection.
    * The main risk is contact with animal hides or hair, bone products, and wool, or with infected animals. People most at risk for cutaneous anthrax include farm workers, veterinarians, tanners, and wool workers. 

Inhalation anthrax develops when anthrax spores enter the lungs through the
airways. It is most commonly contracted when workers breathe in airborne
anthrax spores during processes such as tanning hides and processing wool.

Breathing in spores means a person has been exposed to anthrax. But it does
not mean the person will have symptoms.

    * The bacterial spores must germinate or sprout (the same way a seed sprouts before a plant grows) before the actual disease occurs. This process usually takes 1 to 6 days.
    * Once the spores germinate, they release several toxic substances. These substances cause internal bleeding, swelling, and tissue death. 

Gastrointestinal anthrax occurs when someone eats anthrax-tainted meat.

Injection anthrax can occur in someone who injects heroin.Â

Anthrax may be used as a biological weapon or for bioterrorism.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of anthrax differ depending on the type of anthrax.

Symptoms of cutaneous anthrax start 1 to 7 days after exposure:

    * An itchy sore develops that is similar to an insect bite. This sore may blister and form a black ulcer (sore or eschar).
    * The sore is usually painless, but it is often surrounded by swelling.
    * A scab often forms, and then dries and falls off within 2 weeks. Complete healing can take longer. 

Symptoms of inhalation anthrax:

    * Begins with fever, malaise, headache, cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain
    * Fever and shock may occur later 

Symptoms of gastrointestinal anthrax usually occur within 1 week and may
include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloody diarrhea
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Mouth sores
    * Nausea and vomiting (the vomit may contain blood)

Symptoms of injection anthrax are similar to those of cutaneous anthrax. In
addition, the skin or muscle beneath the injection site may get infected.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination.

The tests to diagnose anthrax depend on the type of disease that is suspected.

A culture of the skin, and sometimes a biopsy, are done on the skin sores. The
sample is looked at under a microscope to identify the anthrax bacterium.

Tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest CT scan or chest x-ray
    * Spinal tap to check for infection around the spinal column
    * Sputum culture 

More tests may be done on fluid or blood samples.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are usually used to treat anthrax. Antibiotics that may be
prescribed include penicillin, doxycycline, and ciprofloxacin.

Inhalation anthrax is treated with a combination of antibiotics such as
ciprofloxacin plus another medicine. They are given by IV (intravenously).
Antibiotics are usually taken for 60 days because it can take spores that long
to germinate.

Cutaneous anthrax is treated with antibiotics taken by mouth, usually for 7 to
10 days. Doxycycline and ciprofloxacin are most often used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When treated with antibiotics, cutaneous anthrax is likely to get better. But
some people who do not get treated may die if anthrax spreads to the blood.

People with second-stage inhalation anthrax have a poor outlook, even with
antibiotic therapy. Many cases in the second stage are fatal.

Gastrointestinal anthrax infection can spread to the bloodstream and may
result in death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think you have been exposed to anthrax or if you
develop symptoms of any type of anthrax.

## Prevention

There areÂ two main ways to prevent anthrax.

For people who have been exposed to anthrax (but have no symptoms of the
disease), providers may prescribe preventive antibiotics, such as
ciprofloxacin, penicillin, or doxycycline, depending on the strain of anthrax.

An anthrax vaccine is available to military personnel and some members of the
general public. It is given in a series of 5 doses over 18 months.

There is no known way to spread cutaneous anthrax from person to person.
People who live with someone who has cutaneous anthrax do not need antibiotics
unless they have also been exposed to the same source of anthrax.

## Alternative Names

Woolsorter's disease; Ragpicker's disease; Cutaneous anthrax; Gastrointestinal
anthrax

## Images

    * ![Cutaneous anthrax](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17053t.jpg)Cutaneous anthrax
    * ![Cutaneous Anthrax](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19057t.jpg)Cutaneous anthrax
    * ![Inhalation Anthrax](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19058t.jpg)Inhalation Anthrax
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Bacillus anthracis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9092t.jpg)Bacillus anthracis

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Anthrax.
www.cdc.gov/anthrax/index.html. Updated January 31, 2017. Accessed May 23,
2019.

Lucey DR, Grinberg LM. Anthrax. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 294.

Martin GJ, Friedlander AM. _Bacillus anthracis_ (anthrax). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 207.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anthrax](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anthrax_thumb.jpg)Anthrax _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

