Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003534.htm    
                                Description: The anthrax blood test is used to measure substances (proteins) called antibodies, which are produced by the body in reaction to the bacteria that cause anthrax.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anthrax blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003534.htm

# Anthrax blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The anthrax blood test is used to measure substances (proteins) called
antibodies, which are produced by the body in reaction to the bacteria that
cause anthrax.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be performed when the health care provider suspects you haveÂ
anthraxÂ infection. The bacteria that cause anthrax is called _Bacillus
anthracis_.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no antibodies to the anthrax bacteria were seen in your
blood sample. However, during the early stages of infection, your body may
only produce a few antibodies, which the blood test may miss. The test may
need to be repeated in 10 days to 2 weeks.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means antibodies to the bacteriaÂ have been detected and
you may have anthrax disease. But, some people come in contact with the
bacteria and do not develop the disease.

To determine if you have a current infection, your provider will look for an
increase in the antibody count after a few weeksÂ as well as your symptoms and
physical exam findings.

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult
than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

The best test for diagnosing anthrax is a culture of affected tissue or blood.

## Alternative Names

Anthrax serology test; Antibody test for anthrax; Serologic test for B.
anthracis

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Bacillus anthracis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9092t.jpg)Bacillus anthracis

## References

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Martin GJ, Friedlander AM. _Bacillus anthracis_ (anthrax). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 209.

## Review Date 9/27/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anthrax](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anthrax_thumb.jpg)Anthrax _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

