Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001010.htm    
                                Description: The conjunctiva is a clear layer of tissue lining the eyelids and covering the white of the eye. Conjunctivitis occurs when the conjunctiva becomes swollen or inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Conjunctivitis or pink eye

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001010.htm

# Conjunctivitis or pink eye

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The conjunctiva is a clear layer of tissue lining the eyelids and covering the
white of the eye. Conjunctivitis occurs when the conjunctiva becomes swollen
or inflamed.

This swelling can be due to an infection, an irritant, dry eyes, or an
allergy.

## Causes

Tears most often protect the eyes by washing away the germs and irritants.
Tears contain proteins and antibodies that kill germs. If your eyes are dry,
germs and irritants are more likely to cause problems.

Conjunctivitis is most often caused by germs such as viruses and bacteria.

    * "Pink eye" most often refers to a highly contagious viral infection that spreads easily among children.
    * In newborns, an eye infection may be caused by bacteria in the birth canal. This must be treated at once to preserve eyesight.
    * Allergic conjunctivitis occurs when the conjunctiva becomes inflamed due to a reaction to pollen, dander, mold, or other allergy-causing substances.

A type of long-term allergic conjunctivitis may occur in people who have those
with chronic allergies or asthma. This condition is called vernal
conjunctivitis. It is most commonly occurs in young men and boys in the spring
and summer months. A similar condition can occur in long-time contact lens
wearers. It may make it difficult to continue to wear contact lenses.

Anything which irritates the eye may cause conjunctivitis also. These include:

    * Chemicals.
    * Smoke.
    * Dust.
    * Over-use of contact lenses (often extended-wear lenses) can lead to conjunctivitus.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Crusts that form on the eyelid overnight (most often caused by bacteria)
    * Eye pain
    * Gritty feeling in the eyes
    * Increased tearing 
    * Itching of the eye
    * Redness in the eyes
    * Sensitivity to light

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will:

    * Examine your eyes
    * Swab the conjunctiva to get a sample for analysis

There are tests that can sometimes be done in the office to look for a
specific type of virus as the cause.

## Treatment

Treatment of conjunctivitis depends on the cause.

Allergic conjunctivitis may improve when allergies are treated. It may go away
on its own when you avoid your allergy triggers. Cool compresses may help
soothe allergic conjunctivitis. Eye drops in the form of antihistamines for
the eye or drops containing steroids, may be necessary in more severe cases.

Antibiotic medicines work well to treat conjunctivitis caused by bacteria.
These are most often given in the form of eye drops. Viral conjunctivitis will
go away on its own without antibiotics. Mild steroid eye drops may help ease
discomfort.

If your eyes are dry, if may help to use artificial tears in conjunction with
any other drops you may be using. Crustiness of the eyelids can be helped by
applying warm compresses. Gently press clean cloth soaked in warm water to
your closed eyes.

Other helpful steps include:

    * DO NOT smoke and avoid secondhand smoke, direct wind, and air conditioning.
    * Use a humidifier, such as in the winter.
    * Limit medicines that may dry you out and worsen your symptoms.
    * Clean eyelashes regularly and apply warm compresses.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome for bacterial infections is most often good with early antibiotic
treatment. Pinkeye (viral conjunctivitis) can easily spread through entire
households or classrooms.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * Your symptoms last longer than 3 or 4 days.
    * Your vision is affected.
    * You have light sensitivity.
    * You develop eye pain that is severe or becoming worse.
    * Your eyelids or the skin around your eyes becomes swollen or red.
    * You have a headache in addition to your other symptom.

## Prevention

Good hygiene can help prevent the spread of conjunctivitis. Things you can do
include:

    * Change pillowcases often.
    * DO NOT share eye makeup and replace it regularly.
    * DO NOT share towels or handkerchiefs.
    * Handle and clean contact lenses properly.
    * Keep hands away from the eye.
    * Wash your hands often.

## Alternative Names

Inflammation - conjunctiva; Pink eye; Chemical conjunctivitis, Pinkeye; Pink-
eye; Allergic conjunctivitis

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Barnes SD, Kumar NM, Pavan-Langston D, Azar DT. Microbial conjunctivitis. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 114.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Conjunctivitis (pink eye):
prevention. www.cdc.gov/conjunctivitis/about/prevention.html. Updated October
7, 2017. Accessed September 4, 2018.

Dupre AA, Wightman JM. Red and painful eye. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

Holtz KK, Townsend KR, Furst JW, et al. An assessment of the adenoplus point-
of-care test for diagnosing adenoviral conjunctivitis and its effect on
antibiotic stewardship. _Mayo Clinic Proceedings: Innovations, Quality &
Outcome_. 2017;1(2): 170-175.
mcpiqojournal.org/article/S2542-4548(17)30031-0/abstract. Accessed September
4, 2018.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.6.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pinkeye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PinkEye2_thumb.jpg)Pinkeye _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

