Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001390.htm    
                                Description: Vernal conjunctivitis is long-term (chronic) swelling (inflammation) of the outer lining of the eyes. It is due to an allergic reaction.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vernal conjunctivitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001390.htm

# Vernal conjunctivitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vernal conjunctivitis is long-term (chronic) swelling (inflammation) of the
outer lining of the eyes. It is due to an allergic reaction.

## Causes

Vernal conjunctivitis often occurs in people with a strong family history of
allergies. These may include allergic rhinitis, asthma, and eczema. It is most
common in young males, and most often occurs during the spring and summer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Burning eyes.
    * Discomfort in bright light (photophobia).
    * Itching eyes.
    * The area around the cornea where the white of the eye and the cornea meet (limbus) may become rough and swollen.
    * The inside of the eyelids (most often the upper ones) may become rough and covered with bumps and a white mucus.
    * Watering eyes.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform an eye exam.

## Treatment

Avoid rubbing the eyes because this can irritate them more.

Cold compresses (a clean cloth soaked in cold water and then placed over the
closed eyes) may be soothing.

Lubricating drops may also help soothe the eye.

If home-care measures do not help, you may need to be treated by your
provider. Treatment may include:

    * Antihistamine or anti-inflammatory drops that are placed into the eye
    * Eye drops that prevent a type of white blood cell called mast cells from releasing histamine (may help prevent future attacks)
    * Mild steroids that are applied directly to the surface of the eye (for severe reactions)

Recent research suggests that a mild form of cyclosporine, which is an anti-
cancer drug, may be helpful for acute episodes. It may also help prevent
recurrences.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition continues over time (is chronic). It gets worse during certain
seasons of the year, most often in the spring and summer. Treatment may
provide relief.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Continuing discomfort
    * Reduced vision
    * Scarring of cornea 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your symptoms continue or get worse.

## Prevention

Using air conditioning or moving to a cooler climate may help prevent the
problem from getting worse in the future.

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Barney NP, Cook EB, Stahl JL. Allergic and immunologic diseases of the eye.
In: Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 39.

Boguniewicz M, Cho CB, Sicherer SH. Occular allergies. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 147.

Hernandez-Trujillo V, Riley E, Rudnick C. Allergy. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

Rubenstein JB, Tannan A. Allergic conjunctivitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.7.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pinkeye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PinkEye2_thumb.jpg)Pinkeye _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

