Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001606.htm    
                                Description: Conjunctivitis is swelling or infection of the membrane that lines the eyelids and covers the white part of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neonatal conjunctivitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001606.htm

# Neonatal conjunctivitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Conjunctivitis is swelling or infection of the membrane that lines the eyelids
and covers the white part of the eye.

Conjunctivitis may occur in a newborn child.

## Causes

Swollen or inflamed eyes are most commonly caused by:

    * A blocked tear duct
    * Eye drops with antibiotics, given right after birth
    * Infection by bacteria or viruses 

Bacteria that normally live in a woman's vagina may be passed to the baby
during childbirth. More serious eye damage may be caused by:

    * Gonorrhea and chlamydia: These are infections spread from sexual contact.
    * The viruses that cause genital and oral herpes: These may lead to severe eye damage. Herpes eye infections are less common than those caused by gonorrhea and chlamydia. 

The mother may not have symptoms at the time of delivery. She still may carry
bacteria or viruses that can cause this problem.

## Symptoms

Infected newborn infants develop drainage from the eyes within 1 day to 2
weeks after birth.

The eyelids become puffy, red, and tender.

There may be watery, bloody, or thick pus-like drainage from the infant's
eyes.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform an eye exam on the baby. If the eye does
not appear normal, the following tests may be done:

    * Culture of the drainage from the eye to look for bacteria or viruses
    * Slit-lamp exam to look for damage to the surface of the eyeball 

## Treatment

Eye swelling that is caused by the eye drops given at birth should go away on
its own.

For a blocked tear duct, gentle warm massage between the eye and nasal area
may help. This is most often tried before starting antibiotics. Surgery may be
needed if a blocked tear duct has not cleared up by the time the baby is 1
year old.

Antibiotics are often needed for eye infections caused by bacteria. Eye drops
and ointments may also be used. Salt water eye drops may be used to remove
sticky yellow drainage.

Special antiviral eye drops or ointments are used for herpes infections of the
eye.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Quick diagnosis and treatment often leads to good outcomes.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blindness
    * Inflammation of the iris
    * Scar or hole in the cornea -- the clear structure that is over the colored part of the eye (the iris) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your provider if you have given birth (or expect to give birth) in a
place where antibiotic or silver nitrate drops are not routinely placed in the
infant's eyes. An example would be having an unsupervised birth at home. This
is very important if you have or areÂ at risk for any sexually transmitted
disease.

## Prevention

Pregnant women should get treatment for diseases spread through sexual contact
to prevent newborn conjunctivitis caused by these infections.

Putting eye drops into all infants' eyes in the delivery room right after
birth can help prevent many infections. (Most states have laws requiring this
treatment.)

When a mother has active herpes sores at the time of delivery, a Cesarean
section (C-section) is recommended to prevent serious illness in the baby.

## Alternative Names

Newborn conjunctivitis; Conjunctivitis of the newborn; Ophthalmia neonatorum;
Eye infection - neonatal conjunctivitis

## References

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
the conjunctiva. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 626.

Rubenstein JB, Tannan A. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 4.6.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pinkeye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PinkEye2_thumb.jpg)Pinkeye _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

