Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003038.htm    
                                Description: Chemosis is swelling of the tissue that lines the eyelids and surface of the eye (conjunctiva).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chemosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003038.htm

# Chemosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chemosis is swelling of the tissue that lines the eyelids and surface of the
eye (conjunctiva).

## Considerations

Chemosis is a sign of eye irritation. The outer surface of the eye
(conjunctiva) may look like a big blister. It can also look like it has fluid
in it. When severe, the tissue swells so much that you can't close your eyes
properly.

Chemosis is often related to allergies or an eye infection. Chemosis can also
be a complication of eye surgery, or it may occur from rubbing the eye too
much.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Angioedema
    * Allergic reaction
    * Bacterial infection (conjunctivitis)
    * Viral infection (conjunctivitis) 

## Home Care

Over-the-counter antihistamines and cool compresses placed on the closed eyes
may help with symptoms due to allergies.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your symptoms do not go away. 
    * You can't close your eye all the way.
    * You have other symptoms, such as eye pain, change in vision, difficulty breathing, or fainting. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
symptoms, which may include:

    * When did it start?
    * How long does the swelling last?
    * How bad is the swelling?
    * How much is the eye swollen?
    * What, if anything, makes it better or worse?
    * What other symptoms do you have? (For example, breathing problems) 

Your provider may prescribe eye medicine to reduce swelling and treat any
conditions that may be causing the chemosis.

## Alternative Names

Fluid-filled conjunctiva; Swollen eye or conjunctiva

## Images

    * ![Chemosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9173t.jpg)Chemosis

## References

Barnes SD, Kumar NM, Pavan-Langston D, Azar DT. Microbial conjunctivitis. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 114.

McNab AA. Orbital infection and inflammation. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.14.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.6.

## Review Date 5/1/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pinkeye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PinkEye2_thumb.jpg)Pinkeye _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

