Link: https://medlineplus.gov/myelodysplasticsyndromes.html    
                                Description: Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) are rare. They are sometimes found during a routine blood test. Learn symptoms, risk factors, and treatment options.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Myelodysplastic Syndromes

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/myelodysplasticsyndromes.html

#  Myelodysplastic Syndromes

Also called: MDS

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside some of your bones, such as your
hip and thigh bones. It contains immature cells, called stem cells. The stem
cells can develop into the red blood cells that carry oxygen through your
body, the white blood cells that fight infections, and the platelets that help
with blood clotting. If you have a myelodysplastic syndrome, the stem cells do
not mature into healthy blood cells. Many of them die in the bone marrow. This
means that you do not have enough healthy cells, which can lead to infection,
anemia, or easy bleeding.

Myelodysplastic syndromes often do not cause early symptoms and are sometimes
found during a routine blood test. If you have symptoms, they may include

    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness or feeling tired
    * Skin that is paler than usual
    * Easy bruising or bleeding
    * Pinpoint spots under the skin caused by bleeding
    * Fever or frequent infections

Myelodysplastic syndromes are rare. People at higher risk are over 60, have
had chemotherapy or radiation therapy, or have been exposed to certain
chemicals. Treatment options include transfusions, drug therapy, chemotherapy,
and blood or bone marrow stem cell transplants.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * General Information about Myelodysplastic Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * General Information about Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Myelodysplastic Syndromes (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) (National Marrow Donor Program)
    * What Are Myelodysplastic Syndromes? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bone Marrow Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Are Myelodysplastic Syndromes Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * How Are Myelodysplastic Syndromes Staged? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society)
    * What Are Bone Marrow Tests? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Can Myelodysplastic Syndromes Be Prevented? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Risk Factors for Myelodysplastic Syndromes? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * General Approach to Treatment of Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (American Cancer Society)
    * Myelodysplastic/ Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Myelodysplastic Syndromes) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Myelodysplastic Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Aplastic Anemia and Myelodysplastic Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Do We Know What Causes Myelodysplastic Syndromes? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm, Unclassifiable ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Types of Myelodysplastic Syndromes (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society)

## Genetics

    * Do We Know What Causes Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society)
    * Genetics Home Reference: 5q minus syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * What Are the Key Statistics about Myelodysplastic Syndromes? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Myelodysplastic Syndrome Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Myelodysplastic Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for Crohn disease complicated with myelodysplastic...
    * Article: Impact of clinical features, cytogenetics, genetic mutations, and methylation dynamics of...
    * Article: Impact of marrow blasts percentage on high-grade myelodysplastic syndrome assessed using...
    * Myelodysplastic Syndromes -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Myelodysplastic
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MyelodysplasticSyndromes.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Myelodysplastic syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Bone Marrow Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Myelodysplastic Syndromes is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 5 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 9 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

