Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001382.htm    
                                Description: Hantavirus is a life-threatening viral infection spread to humans by rodents.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hantavirus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001382.htm

# Hantavirus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hantavirus is a life-threatening viral infection spread to humans by rodents.

## Causes

Hantavirus is carried by rodents, particularly deer mice. The virus is found
in their urine and feces, but it does not make the animal sick.

It is believed that humans can get sick with this virus if they breathe in
contaminated dust from mice nests or droppings. You may come in contact with
such dust when cleaning homes, sheds, or other enclosed areas that have been
empty for a long time.

Hantavirus does not seem to spread from human to human.

## Symptoms

The early symptoms of hantavirus disease are similar to the flu and include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Muscle aches 

People with hantavirus may begin to feel better for a very short time. But
within 1 to 2 days, it becomes hard to breathe. The disease gets worse
quickly. Symptoms include:

    * Dry cough
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Shortness of breath 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal:

    * Abnormal lung sounds as a result of inflammation
    * Kidney failure
    * Low blood pressure (hypotension)
    * Low blood oxygen levels, which cause the skin to turn a blue color 

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood tests to check for signs of hantavirus (presence of antibodies to the virus)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Complete metabolic panel
    * Kidney and liver function tests
    * X-ray of the chest
    * CT scan of the chest 

## Treatment

People with hantavirus are admitted to the hospital, often to the intensive
care unit (ICU).

Treatments include:

    * Oxygen
    * Breathing tube or breathing machine in severe cases
    * Special machines to add oxygen to the blood
    * Other supportive care to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hantavirus is a serious infection that gets worse quickly. Lung failure can
occur and may lead to death. Even with aggressive treatment, more than one
half of people who have this disease in their lungs die.

## Possible Complications

Complications of hantavirus may include:

    * Kidney failure
    * Heart and lung failure

These complications can lead to death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop flu-like symptoms after you come in contact
with rodent droppings or rodent urine, or dust that is contaminated with these
substances.

## Prevention

Avoid exposure to rodent urine and droppings.

    * Drink disinfected water.
    * When camping, sleep on a ground cover and pad.
    * Keep your home clean. Clear out potential nesting sites and clean your kitchen. 

If you must work in an area where contact with rodent urine or feces is
possible, follow these recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC):

    * When opening an unused cabin, shed, or other building, open all the doors and windows, leave the building, and allow the space to air out for 30 minutes.
    * Return to the building and spray the surfaces, carpet, and other areas with a disinfectant. Leave the building for another 30 minutes.
    * Spray mouse nests and droppings with a 10% solution of chlorine bleach or similar disinfectant. Allow it to sit for 30 minutes. Using rubber gloves, place the materials in plastic bags. Seal the bags and throw them in the trash or an incinerator. Dispose of gloves and cleaning materials in the same way.
    * Wash all potentially contaminated hard surfaces with a bleach or disinfectant solution. Avoid vacuuming until the area has been thoroughly decontaminated. Then, vacuum the first few times with enough ventilation. Surgical masks may provide some protection.
    * If you have a heavy infestation of rodents, call a pest control company. They have special cleanup equipment and methods. 

## Alternative Names

Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome; Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome

## Images

    * ![Hanta virus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17201t.jpg)Hanta virus
    * ![Respiratory system overview](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9828t.jpg)Respiratory system overview

## References

Bente DA. California encephalitis, hantavirus pulmonary syndrome, and
bunyavirus hemorrhagic fevers. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Disease, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 168.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Hantavirus.
www.cdc.gov/hantavirus/index.html. Updated January 31, 2019. Accessed February
14, 2019.

Petersen LR, Ksiazek TG. Zoonotic viruses. In: Cohen J, Powderly WG, Opal SM,
eds. _Infectious Diseases_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 175.

## Review Date 1/3/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hantavirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HantavirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Hantavirus
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

