Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001347.htm    
                                Description: Leprosy is an infectious disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium leprae. This disease causes skin sores, nerve damage, and muscle weakness that gets worse over time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leprosy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001347.htm

# Leprosy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leprosy is an infectious disease caused by the bacterium _Mycobacterium
leprae_. This disease causes skin sores, nerve damage, and muscle weakness
that gets worse over time.

## Causes

Leprosy is not very contagious and has a long incubation period (time before
symptoms appear), which makes it hard to know where or when someone caught the
disease. Children are more likely than adults to get the disease.

Most people who come in contact with the bacteria don't develop the disease.
This is because their immune system is able to fight off the bacteria. Experts
believe that the bacteria spread when a person breathes in tiny airborne
droplets released when someone with leprosy coughs or sneezes. The bacteria
may also be passed on by coming into contact with the nasal fluids of a person
with leprosy. Leprosy has two common forms: tuberculoid and lepromatous. Both
forms produce sores on the skin. However, the lepromatous form is more severe.
It causes large lumps and bumps (nodules).

Leprosy is common in many countries worldwide, and in temperate, tropical, and
subtropical climates. About 100 cases per year are diagnosed in the United
States. Most cases are in the South, California, Hawaii, and US islands, and
Guam.

Drug-resistant _Mycobacterium leprae_ and an increased numbers of cases
worldwide have led to global concern for this disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Skin lesions that are lighter than your normal skin color
    * Lesions that have decreased sensation to touch, heat, or pain
    * Lesions that do not heal after several weeks to months
    * Muscle weakness
    * Numbness or lack of feeling in the hands, arms, feet, and legs

## Exams and Tests

Tests that are done include:

    * Skin lesion biopsy
    * Skin scraping examination

The lepromin skin test can be used to tell the two different forms of leprosy
apart, but the test isn't used to diagnose the disease.

## Treatment

Several antibiotics are used to kill the bacteria that cause the disease.
These include dapsone, rifampin, clofazamine, fluoroquinolones, macrolides,
and minocycline. More than one antibiotic is often given together, and usually
for months.

Aspirin, prednisone, or thalidomide is used to control inflammation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Diagnosing the disease early is important. Early treatment limits damage,
prevents a person from spreading the disease, and reduces long-term
complications.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from leprosy include:

    * Disfigurement
    * Muscle weakness
    * Permanent nerve damage in the arms and legs
    * Loss of sensation

People with long-term leprosy may lose the use of their hands or feet due to
repeated injury because they lack feeling in those areas.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of leprosy, especially if
you have had contact with someone who has the disease. Cases of leprosy in the
United States are reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

## Prevention

People on long-term medicine become noninfectious. This means they do not
transmit the organism that causes the disease.

## Alternative Names

Hansen disease

## References

Dupnik K. Leprosy ( _Mycobacterium leprae_ ). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 250.

Ernst JD. Leprosy (Hansen disease). In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 310.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mycobacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MycobacterialInfections_thumb.jpg)Mycobacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

