Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003740.htm    
                                Description: Mycobacterial culture is a test to look for the bacteria that cause tuberculosis and other infections caused by similar bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mycobacterial culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003740.htm

# Mycobacterial culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mycobacterial culture is a test to look for the bacteria that cause
tuberculosis and other infections caused by similar bacteria.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of body fluid or tissue is needed. This sample may be taken from the
lungs, liver, or bone marrow.

Most often, a sputum sample will be taken. To obtain a sample, you will be
asked to cough deeply and spit out the material that comes up from your lungs.

A biopsy or aspiration may also be done.

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There it is placed in a special dish
(culture). It is then watched for up to 6 weeks to see if the bacteria grow.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Preparation depends on how the test is done. Follow your health care
provider's instructions.

## How the Test will Feel

How the test will feel depends on the specific procedure. Your provider can
discuss this with you before the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of tuberculosis or a related
infection.

## Normal Results

If there is no disease present, there will be no growth of bacteria in the
culture medium.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Mycobacterium tuberculosis or similar bacteria is present in the culture.

## Risks

Risks depend on the specific biopsy or aspiration being performed.

## Alternative Names

Culture - mycobacterial

## Images

    * ![Liver culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9681t.jpg)Liver culture

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Culture - routine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:409-411.

Fitzgerald DW, Sterling TR, Haas DW. Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 251.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mycobacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MycobacterialInfections_thumb.jpg)Mycobacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

