Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003724.htm    
                                Description: Sputum stain for mycobacteria is a test to check for a type of bacteria that cause tuberculosis and other infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sputum stain for mycobacteria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003724.htm

# Sputum stain for mycobacteria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sputum stain for mycobacteria is a test to check for a type of bacteria that
cause tuberculosis and other infections.  

## How the Test is Performed

This test requires a sample of sputum.Â

    * You will be asked to cough deeply and spit any substance that comes up from your lungs (sputum) into a special container.
    * You may be asked to breathe in a mist of salty steam. This makes you cough more deeply and produce sputum.
    * If you still do not produce enough sputum, you might have a procedure called bronchoscopy. 
    * To increase the accuracy, this test is sometimes done 3 times, often 3 days in a row.

The test sample is examined under a microscope. Another test, called a
culture, is done to confirm the results. A culture test takes a few days to
get results. This sputum test can give your doctor a quick answer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Drinking fluids the night before the test helps your lungs produce phlegm. It
makes the test more accurate if it is done first thing in the morning.

If you are having a bronchoscopy, follow your health care provider's
instructions on how to prepare for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort, unless a bronchoscopy needs to be performed.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed when the doctor suspects tuberculosis or other
mycobacterium infection.

## Normal Results

Results are normal when no mycobacterial organisms are found.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results show that the stain is positive for:

    * Mycobacterium tuberculosis
    * Mycobacterium avium-intracellular
    * Other mycobacteria or acid-fast bacteria

## Risks

There are no risks with this test, unless bronchoscopy is performed.

## Alternative Names

Acid fast bacilli stain; AFB stain; Tuberculosis smear; TB smear

## Images

    * ![Sputum test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9945t.jpg)Sputum test

## References

Hopewell PC, Kato-Maeda M, Ernst JD. Tuberculosis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 35.

Woods GL. Mycobacteria. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mycobacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MycobacterialInfections_thumb.jpg)Mycobacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

