Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000977.htm    
                                Description: Fifth disease is caused by a virus that leads to a rash on the cheeks, arms, and legs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fifth disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000977.htm

# Fifth disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fifth disease is caused by a virus that leads to a rash on the cheeks, arms,
and legs.

## Causes

Fifth disease is caused by human parvovirus B19. It often affects preschoolers
or school-age children during the spring. The disease spreads through the
fluids in the nose and mouth when someone coughs or sneezes.

The disease causes a tell-tale bright-red rash on the cheeks. The rash also
spreads to the body and can cause other symptoms.

You can get fifth disease and not have any symptoms. About 20% of people who
get the virus do not have symptoms.

## Symptoms

Early symptoms of fifth disease include:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Runny nose 

This is followed by a rash on the face and body:

    * The tell-tale sign of this illness is bright-red cheeks. This is often called a "slapped-cheek" rash.
    * The rash appears on the arms and legs and middle of the body, and it may itch.
    * The rash comes and goes and most often disappears in about 2 weeks. It fades from the center outwards, so it looks lacy. 

Some people also have joint pain and swelling. This more commonly occurs in
adult women.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine the rash. Most often this is enough to
diagnose the disease.

Your provider can also do blood tests to look for signs of the virus, although
it is not needed in most cases.

The provider may choose to do a blood test in certain situations, such as for
pregnant women or people with anemia.

## Treatment

There is no treatment for fifth disease. The virus will clear up on its own in
a couple of weeks. If your child has joint pain or an itchy rash, talk with
your child's provider about ways to ease symptoms. Acetaminophen (such as
Tylenol) for children can help relieve joint pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children and adults have only mild symptoms and recover completely.

## Possible Complications

Fifth disease does not often cause complications in most people.

If you are pregnant and think you may have been exposed to someone with the
virus, tell your provider. Usually there is no problem. Most pregnant women
are immune to the virus. Your provider can test you to see if you are immune.

Women who are not immune most often only have mild symptoms. However, the
virus can cause anemia in an unborn baby and even cause miscarriage. This is
uncommon and occurs only in a small percentage of women. It is more likely in
the first half of pregnancy.

There is also a higher risk for complications in people with:

    * A weak immune system, such as from cancer, leukemia, or HIV infection
    * Certain blood problems such as sickle cell anemia 

Fifth disease can cause severe anemia, which will need treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You should call your provider if:

    * Your child has symptoms of fifth disease.
    * You are pregnant and think you may have been exposed to the virus or you have a rash.

## Alternative Names

Parvovirus B19; Erythema infectiosum; Slapped cheek rash

## Images

    * ![Fifth disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19074t.jpg)Fifth disease

## References

Brown KE. Human parvoviruses, including parvovirus B19V and human
bocaparvoviruses. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 147.

Koch WC. Parvoviruses. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker
RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 278.

Michaels MG, Williams JV. Infectious diseases. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 13.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fifth Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FifthDisease2_thumb.jpg)Fifth
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

