Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000098.htm    
                                Description: Acute pulmonary histoplasmosis is a respiratory infection that is caused by inhaling the spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Histoplasmosis - acute (primary) pulmonary

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000098.htm

# Histoplasmosis - acute (primary) pulmonary

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute pulmonary histoplasmosis is a respiratory infection that is caused by
inhaling the spores of the fungus _Histoplasma capsulatum_.

## Causes

_Histoplasma capsulatumÂ_ is the name of the fungus that causes
histoplasmosis. It is found in the central and eastern United States, eastern
Canada, Mexico, Central America, South America, Africa, and Southeast Asia. It
is commonly found in the soil in river valleys. It gets into the soil mostly
from bird and bat droppings.

You can get sick when you breathe in spores that the fungus produces. Every
year, thousands of people with a normal immune system worldwide are infected,
but most do not become seriously sick. Most have no symptoms or have only a
mild flu-like illness and recover without any treatment.

Acute pulmonary histoplasmosis may happen as an epidemic, with many people in
one region becoming sick at the same time. People with weakened immune systems
(see Symptoms section below) are more likely to:

    * Develop the disease if exposed to the fungus spores
    * Have the disease come back
    * Have more symptoms, and more serious symptoms, than others who get the disease

Risk factors include traveling to or living in the central or eastern United
States near the Ohio and Mississippi river valleys, and being exposed to the
droppings of birds and bats. This threat is greatest after an old building is
torn down and the spores get into the air, or when exploring caves.

## Symptoms

Most people with acute pulmonary histoplasmosis have no symptoms or only mild
symptoms. The most common symptoms are:

    * Chest pain
    * Chills
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Joint pain and stiffness
    * Muscle aches and stiffness
    * Rash (usually small sores on the lower legs)
    * Shortness of breath 

Acute pulmonary histoplasmosis can be a serious illness in the very young,
older people, and people with a weakened immune system, including those who:

    * Have HIV/AIDS
    * Have had bone marrow or solid organ transplants
    * Take medicines that suppress their immune system

Symptoms in these people may include:

    * Inflammation around the heart (called pericarditis)
    * Serious lung infections
    * Severe joint pain

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose histoplasmosis, you must have the fungus or signs of the fungus in
your body. Or your immune system must show that it is reacting to the fungus.

Tests include:

    * Antibody tests for histoplasmosis
    * Biopsy of infection site
    * Bronchoscopy (usually only done if symptoms are severe or you have an abnormal immune system)
    * Complete blood count (CBC) with differential
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray (might show a lung infection or pneumonia)
    * Sputum culture (this test often does not show the fungus, even if you are infected)
    * Urine test for _Histoplasma capsulatum_ antigen

## Treatment

Most cases of histoplasmosis clear up without specific treatment. People are
advised to rest and take medicine to control fever.

Your health care provider may prescribe medicine if you are sick for more than
4 weeks, have a weakened immune system, or are having breathing problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When histoplasmosis infection is severe or gets worse, the illness may last up
to 6 months. Even then, it is rarely fatal.

## Possible Complications

Acute pulmonary histoplasmosis can get worse over time, or can become long-
term (chronic) pulmonary histoplasmosis (which doesn't go away).

Histoplasmosis can spread to other organs through the bloodstream
(dissemination). This is often seen in infants, young children, and people
with a suppressed immune system.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of histoplasmosis, especially if you have a weakened immune system or have recently been exposed to bird or bat droppings
    * You are being treated for histoplasmosis and develop new symptoms

## Prevention

Avoid contact with bird or bat droppings if you are in an area where the spore
is common, especially if you have a weakened immune system.

## Images

    * ![Acute histoplasmosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17222t.jpg)Acute histoplasmosis
    * ![Fungus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9485t.jpg)Fungus

## References

Deepe GS. Histoplasma capsulatum (histoplasmosis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 265.

Kauffman CA. Histoplasmosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 332.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Histoplasmosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Histoplasmosis_thumb.jpg)Histoplasmosis
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

