Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003838.htm    
                                Description: The histoplasma skin test is used to check if you have been exposed to a fungus called Histoplasma capsulatum. The fungus causes an infection called histoplasmosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Histoplasma skin test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003838.htm

# Histoplasma skin test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The histoplasma skin test is used to check if you have been exposed to a
fungus called _Histoplasma capsulatum._ The fungus causes an infection called
histoplasmosis.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider cleans an area of your skin, usually the forearm. An
allergen is injected just below the cleaned skin surface.Â An allergen is a
substance that causes an allergic reaction. The injection site is checked at
24 hours and at 48 hours for signs of a reaction. Occasionally, the reaction
may not appear until the fourth day.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a brief sting as the needle is inserted just below the skin.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to determine if you have been exposed to the fungus that
causes histoplasmosis.

## Normal Results

No reaction (inflammation) at the site of the test is normal. The skin test
can rarely make histoplasmosis antibody tests turn positive.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A reaction means you have been exposed to _Histoplasma capsulatum_. It does
not always mean you have an active infection.

## Risks

There is a slight risk of anaphylactic shock (a severe reaction).

## Considerations

This test is rarely used today. It has been replaced by a variety of blood and
urine tests.

## Alternative Names

Histoplasmosis skin test

## Images

    * ![Aspergillus antigen skin test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9412t.jpg)Aspergillus antigen skin test

## References

Deepe GS. _Histoplasma capsulatum_ (histoplasmosis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 263.

Iwen PC. Mycotic diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St. Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Histoplasmosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Histoplasmosis_thumb.jpg)Histoplasmosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

