Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001082.htm    
                                Description: Histoplasmosis is an infection that occurs from breathing in the spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Histoplasmosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001082.htm

# Histoplasmosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Histoplasmosis is an infection that occurs from breathing in the spores of the
fungus _Histoplasma capsulatum_.

## Causes

Histoplasmosis occurs throughout the world. In the United States, it is most
common in the southeastern, mid-Atlantic, and central states, especially in
the Mississippi and Ohio River valleys.

Histoplasma fungus grows as a mold in the soil. You may get sick when you
breathe in spores produced by the fungus. Soil that contains bird or bat
droppings may have larger amounts of this fungus. The threat is greatest after
an old building is torn down, or in caves.

This infection can occur in people with a healthy immune system. But, having a
weakened immune system increases the risk of getting or reactivating this
disease. Very young or very old people, or those with HIV/AIDS, cancer, or an
organ transplant have more severe symptoms.

People withÂ long-term (chronic) lung disease (such as emphysema and
bronchiectasis) are also at higher risk for a more severe infection.

## Symptoms

Most people have no symptoms, or only have a mild, flu-like illness.

If symptoms do occur, they may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Cough and chest pain that gets worse when breathing in
    * Joint pain
    * Mouth sores
    * Red skin bumps, most often on the lower legs

The infection may be active for a short period of time, and then the symptoms
go away. Sometimes, the lung infection may become chronic. Symptoms include:

    * Chest pain and shortness of breath
    * Cough, possibly coughing up blood
    * Fever and sweating

In a small number of people, especially in those with a weakened immune
system, histoplasmosis spreads throughout the body. This is called
disseminated histoplasmosis. In response to the infection irritation and
swelling (inflammation) occur. Symptoms may include:

    * Chest pain from inflammation of the sac-like covering around the heart (pericarditis)
    * Headache and neck stiffness from swelling of the membranes covering of the brain and spinal cord (meningitis)
    * High fever

## Exams and Tests

Histoplasmosis is diagnosed by:

    * Biopsy of the lung, skin, liver, or bone marrow
    * BloodÂ or urine tests to detect histoplasmosis proteins or antibodies
    * Cultures of the blood, urine, or sputum (this test provides the clearest diagnosis of histoplasmosis, but results can take 6 weeks)

To help diagnose this condition, your health care provider may do a:

    * BronchoscopyÂ (test that uses a viewing scope inserted into the lung airway to check for signs of infection)
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Spinal tap to look for signs of infection in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)

## Treatment

In otherwise healthy people, this infection usually goes away without
treatment.

If you are sick for more than 1 month or are having trouble breathing, your
provider may prescribe medicine. The main treatment for histoplasmosis is
antifungal drugs.

    * Antifungals may need to be given through a vein, depending on the form or stage of disease.
    * Some of these medicines can have side effects.
    * Long-term treatment with antifungal drugs may be needed for up to 1 to 2 years.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on how severe the infection is, and your general health
condition. Some people get better without treatment. An active infection will
usually go away with antifungal medicine. But, the infection may leave
scarring inside the lung.

The death rate is higher for people with untreated disseminated histoplasmosis
who have a weakened immune system.

## Possible Complications

Scarring in the chest cavity may put pressure on the:

    * Major blood vessels carrying blood to and from the heart
    * Heart
    * Esophagus (food pipe)
    * Lymph nodes 

Enlarged lymph nodes in the chest may press on body parts such as the
esophagus and blood vessels of the lungs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you live in an area where histoplasmosis is common and
you develop:

    * Flu-like symptoms
    * Chest pain
    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath

While there are many other illnesses that have similar symptoms, you may need
to be tested for histoplasmosis.

## Prevention

Histoplasmosis may be prevented by reducing exposure to dust in chicken coops,
bat caves, and other high-risk locations. Wear masks and other protective
equipment if you work in or go into these environments.

## Alternative Names

Fungal infection - histoplasmosis; Ohio River Valley fever; Fibrosing
mediastinitis

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Acute histoplasmosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17222t.jpg)Acute histoplasmosis
    * ![Disseminated histoplasmosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17224t.jpg)Disseminated histoplasmosis
    * ![Histoplasmosis, disseminated in HIV patient](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2430t.jpg)Histoplasmosis, disseminated in HIV patient

## References

Deepe GS. _Histoplasma capsulatum_ (histoplasmosis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 265.

Kauffman CA. Histoplasmosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 332.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Histoplasmosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Histoplasmosis_thumb.jpg)Histoplasmosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

