Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000860.htm    
                                Description: Impetigo is a common skin infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Impetigo

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000860.htm

# Impetigo

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Impetigo is a common skin infection.

## Causes

Impetigo is caused by streptococcus (strep) or staphylococcus (staph)
bacteria. Methicillin-resistant staph aureus (MRSA) is becoming a common
cause.

Skin normally has many types of bacteria on it. When there is a break in the
skin, bacteria can enter the body and grow there. This causes inflammation and
infection. Breaks in the skin may occur from injury or trauma to the skin or
from insect, animal, or human bites.

Impetigo may also occur on skin where there is no visible break.

Impetigo is most common in children who live in unhealthy conditions.

In adults, it may occur following another skin problem. It may also develop
after a cold or other virus.

Impetigo can spread to others. You can catch the infection from someone who
has it if the fluid that oozes from their skin blisters touches an open area
on your skin.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of impetigo are:

    * One or many blisters that are filled with pus and easy to pop. In infants, the skin is reddish or raw-looking where a blister has broken.
    * Blisters that itch, are filled with yellow or honey-colored fluid, and ooze and crust over. Rash that may begin as a single spot, but spreads to other areas due to scratching.
    * Skin sores on the face, lips, arms, or legs that spread to other areas.
    * Swollen lymph nodes near the infection.
    * Patches of impetigo on the body (in children). 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin to determine if you have
impetigo.

Your provider may take a sample of bacteria from your skin to grow in the lab.
This can help determine if MRSA is the cause. Specific antibiotics are needed
to treat this type of bacteria.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to get rid of the infection and relieve your
symptoms.

Your provider will prescribe an antibacterial cream. You may need to take
antibiotics by mouth if the infection is severe.

Gently wash (DO NOT scrub) your skin several times a day. Use an antibacterial
soap to remove crusts and drainage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The sores of impetigo heal slowly. Scars are rare.Â The cure rate is very
high, but the problem often comes back in young children.

## Possible Complications

Impetigo may lead to:

    * Spread of the infection to other parts of the body (common)
    * Kidney inflammation or failure (rare)
    * Permanent skin damage and scarring (very rare)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of impetigo.

## Prevention

Prevent the spread of infection.

    * If you have impetigo, always use a clean washcloth and towel each time you wash.
    * DO NOT share towels, clothing, razors, and other personal care products with anyone.
    * Avoid touching blisters that are oozing.
    * Wash your hands thoroughly after touching infected skin.

Keep your skin clean to prevent getting the infection. Wash minor cuts and
scrapes well with soap and clean water. You can use a mild antibacterial soap.

## Alternative Names

Streptococcus - impetigo; Strep - impetigo; Staph - impetigo; Staphylococcus -
impetigo

## Images

    * ![Impetigo - bullous on the buttocks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1317t.jpg)Impetigo - bullous on the buttocks
    * ![Impetigo on a child's face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2431t.jpg)Impetigo on a child's face

## References

Habif TP. Bacterial infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A
Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Cutaneous bacterial
infections. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 665.

Pasternack MS, Swartz MN. Cellulitis, necrotizing fasciitis, and subcutaneous
tissue infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 95.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Impetigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImpetigoII_thumb.png)Impetigo _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

