Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000616.htm    
                                Description: Legionnaire disease is an infection of the lungs and airways. It is caused by Legionella bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Legionnaire disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000616.htm

# Legionnaire disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Legionnaire disease is an infection of the lungs and airways. It is caused by
_Legionella_ bacteria.

## Causes

The bacteria that cause Legionnaire disease have been found in water delivery
systems. They can survive in the warm, moist air conditioning systems of large
buildings, including hospitals.

Most cases are caused by the bacteria _Legionella pneumophila_. The rest of
the cases are caused by other _Legionella_ species.

Spread of the bacteria from person to person has not been proven.

Most infections occur in middle-aged or older people. In rare cases, children
can get the infection. When they do, the disease is less severe.

Risk factors include:

    * Alcohol use
    * Cigarette smoking
    * Chronic illnesses, such as kidney failure or diabetes
    * Long-term (chronic) lung disease, such as COPD
    * Long-term use of a breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Medicines that suppress the immune system, including chemotherapy and steroid drugs
    * Older age 

## Symptoms

Symptoms tend to get worse during the first 4 to 6 days. They most often
improve in another 4 to 5 days.

Symptoms may include:

    * General discomfort, loss of energy, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Fever, shaking chills
    * Joint pain, muscle aches and stiffness
    * Chest pain, shortness of breath
    * Cough that does not produce much sputum or mucus (dry cough)
    * Coughing up blood (rare)
    * Diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Abnormal sounds, called
crackles, may be heard when listening to the chest with a stethoscope.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Blood cultures to identify the bacteria
    * Bronchoscopy to view the airways and diagnose lung disease
    * Chest x-ray or CT scan
    * Complete blood count (CBC), including white blood cell count
    * ESR (sed rate) to check how much inflammation is in the body
    * Liver blood tests
    * Tests and cultures on sputum to identify the legionella bacteria
    * Urine tests to check for _Legionella pneumophila_ bacteria
    * Molecular tests with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to fight the infection. Treatment is started as soon as
Legionnaire disease is suspected, without waiting for results of any lab test.

Other treatments may include receiving:

    * Fluids through a vein (IV) 
    * Oxygen, which is given through a mask or breathing machine
    * Medicines that are breathed in to ease breathing  
  

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Legionnaire disease can be life threatening. The risk of dying is higher in
people who:

    * Have long-term (chronic) diseases
    * Become infected while in the hospital
    * Are older adults

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider right away if you have any type of breathing problem and
think you have symptoms of Legionnaire disease.

## Alternative Names

Legionella pneumonia; Pontiac fever; Legionellosis;Â Legionella pneumophila

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Legionnaire disease - organism legionella](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1032t.jpg)Legionnaire disease - organism legionella

## References

Edelstein PH, Roy CR. Legionnaires' disease and Pontiac fever. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 234.

Marrie TJ. _Legionella_ infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 314.

## Review Date 1/15/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Legionnaires'
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegionnairesDisease_thumb.jpg)Legionnaires'
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

