Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001592.htm    
                                Description: Chickenpox is a viral infection in which a person develops very itchy blisters all over the body. It was more common in the past. The illness is rare today because of the chickenpox vaccine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chickenpox

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001592.htm

# Chickenpox

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chickenpox is a viral infection in which a person develops very itchy blisters
all over the body. It was more common in the past. The illness is rare today
because of the chickenpox vaccine.

## Causes

Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It is a member of the
herpesvirus family. The same virus also causes shingles in adults.

Chickenpox can be spread very easily to others from 1 to 2 days before
blisters appear until all the blisters have crusted over. You may get
chickenpox:

    * From touching the fluids from a chickenpox blister
    * If someone with the disease coughs or sneezes near you

Most cases of chickenpox occur in children younger than age 10. The disease is
most often mild, although serious complications may occur. Adults and older
children get sicker than younger children in most cases.

Children whose mothers have had chickenpox or have received the chickenpox
vaccine are not very likely to catch it before they are 1 year old. If they do
catch chickenpox, they often have mild cases. This is because antibodies from
their mothers' blood help protect them. Children under 1 year old whose
mothers have not had chickenpox or the vaccine can get severe chickenpox.

Severe chickenpox symptoms are more common in children whose immune system
does not work well.

## Symptoms

Most children with chickenpox have the following symptoms before the rash
appears:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Stomach ache

The chickenpox rash occurs about 10 to 21 days after coming into contact with
someone who had the disease. In most cases, a child will develop 250 to 500
small, itchy, fluid-filled blisters over red spots on the skin.

    * The blisters are most often first seen on the face, middle of the body, or scalp.
    * After a day or two, the blisters become cloudy and then scab. Meanwhile, new blisters form in groups. They often appear in the mouth, in the vagina, and on the eyelids.
    * Children with skin problems, such as eczema, may get thousands of blisters.

Most pox will not leave scars unless they become infected with bacteria from
scratching.

Some children who have had the vaccine will still develop a mild case of
chickenpox. In most cases, they recover much more quickly and have only a few
poxes (fewer than 30). These cases are often harder to diagnose. However,
these children can still spread chickenpox to others.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can most often diagnose chickenpox by looking at the
rash and asking questions about the person's medical history. Small blisters
on the scalp confirm the diagnosis in most cases.

Lab tests can help confirm the diagnosis, if needed.

## Treatment

Treatment involves keeping the person as comfortable as possible. Here are
things to try:

    * Avoid scratching or rubbing the itchy areas. Keep fingernails short to avoid damaging the skin from scratching.
    * Wear cool, light, loose bedclothes. Avoid wearing rough clothing, particularly wool, over an itchy area.
    * Take lukewarm baths using little soap and rinse thoroughly. Try a skin-soothing oatmeal or cornstarch bath.
    * Apply a soothing moisturizer after bathing to soften and cool the skin.
    * Avoid prolonged exposure to excessive heat and humidity.
    * Try over-the-counter oral antihistamines such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), but be aware of possible side effects, such as drowsiness.
    * Try over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream on itchy areas. 

Medicines that fight the chickenpox virus are available, but not given to
everyone. To work well, the medicine should be started within the first 24
hours of the rash.

    * Antiviral drugs are not very often prescribed to otherwise healthy children who do not have severe symptoms. Adults and teens, who are at risk for more severe symptoms, may benefit from antiviral medicine if it is given early.
    * Antiviral medicine may be very important for those who have skin conditions (such as eczema or recent sunburn), lung conditions (such as asthma), or who have recently taken steroids.
    * Some providers also give antiviral medicines to people in the same household who also develop chickenpox, because they will most often develop more severe symptoms. 

DO NOT give aspirin or ibuprofen to someone who may have chickenpox. Use of
aspirin has been associated with a serious condition called Reye syndrome.
Ibuprofen has been associated with more severe secondary infections.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) may be used.

A child with chickenpox should not return to school or play with other
children until all chickenpox sores have crusted over or dried out. Adults
should follow this same rule while considering when to return to work or be
around others.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, a person recovers without complications.

Once you have had chickenpox, the virus often remains dormant or asleep in
your body for your lifetime. About 1 in 10 adults will have shingles when the
virus re-emerges during a period of stress.

## Possible Complications

Rarely, infection of the brain has occurred. Other problems may include:

    * Reye syndrome 
    * Infection of the heart muscle
    * Pneumonia
    * Joint pain or swelling

Cerebellar ataxia may appear during the recovery phase or later. This involves
a very unsteady walk.

Women who get chickenpox during pregnancy can pass the infection to the
developing baby. Newborns are at risk for severe infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think that your child has chickenpox or if your
child is over 12 months of age and has not been vaccinated against chickenpox.

## Prevention

Because chickenpox is airborne and spreads very easily even before the rash
appears, it is hard to avoid.

A vaccine to prevent chickenpox is part of a child's routine vaccine schedule.

The vaccine often prevents the chickenpox disease completely or makes the
illness very mild.

Talk to your provider if you think your child might be at high risk for
complications and might have been exposed. Taking preventive steps right away
may be important. Giving the vaccine early after exposure may still reduce the
severity of the disease.

## Alternative Names

Varicella; Chicken pox

## Images

    * ![Chickenpox - lesion on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1302t.jpg)Chickenpox - lesion on the leg
    * ![Chickenpox](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19655t.jpg)Chickenpox
    * ![Chickenpox - lesions on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1301t.jpg)Chickenpox - lesions on the chest
    * ![Chickenpox, acute pneumonia - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2317t.jpg)Chickenpox, acute pneumonia - chest x-ray
    * ![Chickenpox - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2318t.jpg)Chickenpox - close-up

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Vaccine information
statement. Varicella (chickenpox) vaccine. www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-
statements/varicella.pdf. Updated August 15, 2019. Accessed September 5, 2019.

LaRussa PS, Marin M, Gershon AA. Varicella-zoster virus. In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 280.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Romero JR, Szilagyi P; Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP) Child/Adolescent Immunization Work Group.
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule
for children and adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):112-114. PMID: 30730870
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730870.

This article uses information by permission from Alan Greene, M.D., Â© Greene
Ink, Inc.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chickenpox](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChickenPoxII_thumb.jpg)Chickenpox
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

