Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000284.htm    
                                Description: Hepatitis C is a viral disease that leads to swelling (inflammation) of the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatitis C

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000284.htm

# Hepatitis C

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatitis C is a viral disease that leads to swelling (inflammation) of the
liver.

Other types of viral hepatitis include:

    * Hepatitis A
    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis D
    * Hepatitis E 

## Causes

Hepatitis C infection is caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV).

![Hepatitis C](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17217.jpg)

You can catch hepatitis C if the blood of someone who has hepatitis C enters
your body. Exposure may occur:

    * After a needle stick or sharps injury
    * If blood from someone who has hepatitis C contacts a cut on your skin or contacts your eyes or mouth 

People at risk of hepatitis C are those who:

    * Inject street drugs or share a needle with someone who has hepatitis C
    * Have been on long-term kidney dialysis
    * Have regular contact with blood at work (such as a health care worker)
    * Have unprotected sexual contact with a person who has hepatitis C
    * Were born to a mother who had hepatitis C
    * Received a tattoo or acupuncture with needles that were not disinfected properly after being used on another person (risk is very low with practitioners who have a tattoo license or permit or an acupuncture license)
    * Received an organ transplant from a donor who has hepatitis C
    * Share personal items, such as toothbrushes and razors, with someone who has hepatitis C (less common)
    * Received a blood transfusion (rare in the United States since blood screening became available in 1992) 

## Symptoms

Most people who are recently infected with hepatitis C do not have symptoms.
Some people have yellowing of the skin (jaundice). Chronic infection often
causes no symptoms. But fatigue, depression and other problems can occur.

Persons who have long-term (chronic) infection often have no symptoms until
their liver becomes scarred (cirrhosis). Most people with this condition are
ill and have many health problems.

The following symptoms may occur with hepatitis C infection:

    * Pain in the right upper abdomen
    * Abdominal swelling due to fluid (ascites)
    * Clay-colored or pale stools
    * Dark urine
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Itching
    * Jaundice
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests are done to check for hepatitis C:

    * Enzyme immunoassay (EIA) to detect hepatitis C antibody
    * Hepatitis C RNA assays to measure virus levels (viral load) 

Everyone born from 1945 to 1965 (the baby boomer generation) should get a one-
time test for hepatitis C.

Genetic testing is done to check for the type of hepatitis C (genotype). There
are six types of the virus (genotypes 1 through 6). Test results can help your
doctor choose treatment that is best for you.

The following tests are done to identify and monitor liver damage from
hepatitis C:

    * Albumin level
    * Liver function tests
    * Prothrombin time
    * Liver biopsy 

## Treatment

You should talk to your health care provider about your treatment options and
when treatment should begin.

    * The goal of treatment is to rid the body of the virus. This can prevent liver damage that may lead to liver failure or liver cancer.
    * Your provider will monitor you by checking liver blood tests, viral load (the amount of HCV in your blood), imaging tests, and biopsy results.
    * Treatment is especially important for people who are showing signs of liver fibrosis or scarring. 

Antiviral medicines are used to treat hepatitis C. These drugs help fight the
HCV. Newer antiviral drugs:

    * Provide a much improved cure rate
    * Have fewer side effects and are easier to take
    * Are taken by mouth for 8 to 24 weeks 

The choice of which medicine depends on the genotype of the HCV you have.

A liver transplant may be recommended for people who develop cirrhosis and/or
liver cancer. Your provider can tell you more about liver transplant.

If you have hepatitis C:

    * Do not take over-the-counter medicines that you have not taken before without asking your provider. Also ask about vitamins and other supplements.
    * Do not use alcohol or street drugs. Alcohol can speed up the damage to your liver. It can also reduce how well medicines work.
    * Ask your provider whether you need the hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccines. If you have not received a vaccine for hepatitis A or B or have not had these forms of hepatitis, you may need vaccination for them.

## Support Groups

Joining a support groupÂ can help ease the stress of having hepatitis C. Ask
your provider about liver disease resourcesÂ and support groups in your area.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people (75% to 85%) who are infected with the virus develop chronic
hepatitis C. This condition poses a risk for cirrhosis, liver cancer, or both.
The outlook for hepatitis C depends in part on the genotype.

A good response to treatment occurs when the virus can no longer be detected
in the blood 12 weeks or more after treatment. This is called "sustained
virologic response" (SVR). Up to 90% of those treated for some genotypes have
this type of response.

Some people do not respond to initial treatment. They may need to be re-
treated with a different class of medicines.

Also, some people can become re-infected or infected with a different genotype
strain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of hepatitis
    * You believe you have been exposed to the HCV

## Prevention

Steps that can be taken to help prevent the spread of hepatitis C from one
person to another include:

    * Health care workers should follow precautions when handling blood.
    * Do not share needles with anyone.
    * Do not get tattoos or body piercings or receive acupuncture from someone who does not have a permit or license.
    * Do not share personal items, such as razors and toothbrushes.
    * Practice safe sex.

If you or your partner is infected with hepatitis C and you have been in a
stable and monogamous (no other partners) relationship, the risk of giving the
virus to, or getting the virus from, the other person is low.

HCV cannot be spread by casual contact, such as holding hands, kissing,
coughing or sneezing, breastfeeding, sharing eating utensils or drinking
glasses.

Currently there is no vaccine for hepatitis C.

## Alternative Names

Sustained virologic response - hepatitis C; SVR - hepatitis C

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Hepatitis C](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17217t.jpg)Hepatitis C

## References

AASLD-IDSA HCV Guidance Panel. Hepatitis C Guidance 2018 Update: AASLD-IDSA
recommendations for testing, managing, and treating hepatitis C virus
infection. _Clin Infect Dis._ 2018;67(10):1477-1492. PMID: 30215672
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30215672.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Hepatitis C.
www.cdc.gov/hepatitis/hcv/cfaq.htm. Updated November 2, 2018. Accessed June
22, 2019.

Jacobson IM, Lim JK, Fried MW. American Gastroenterological Association
Institute clinical practice update-expert review: care of patients who have
achieved a sustained virologic response after antiviral therapy for chronic
hepatitis C infection. _Gastroenterology._ 2017;152(6):1578-1587 PMID:
28344022 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28344022.

Ray SC, Thomas DL. Hepatitis C. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 156.

Wedemeyer H. Hepatitis C. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 80.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Internal
review and update on 07/12/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis C](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisC_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis C
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

