Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007186.htm    
                                Description: West Nile virus is a disease spread by mosquitoes. The condition ranges from mild to severe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

West Nile virus infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007186.htm

# West Nile virus infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

West Nile virus is a disease spread by mosquitoes. The condition ranges from
mild to severe.

## Causes

West Nile virus was first identified in 1937 in Uganda in eastern Africa. It
was first discovered in the United States in the summer of 1999 in New York.
Since then, the virus has spread throughout the US.

Researchers believe West Nile virus is spread when a mosquito bites an
infected bird and then bites a person.

Mosquitoes carry the highest amounts of the virus in the early fall, which is
why more people get the disease in late August to early September. As the
weather becomes colder and mosquitoes die off, there are fewer cases of the
disease.

Although many people are bitten by mosquitoes that carry West Nile virus, most
do not know they have been infected.

Risk factors for developing a more severe form of West Nile virus include:

    * Conditions that weaken the immune system, such as HIV/AIDS, organ transplants, and recent chemotherapy
    * Older or very young age
    * Pregnancy 

West Nile virus may also be spread through blood transfusions and organ
transplants. It is possible for an infected mother to spread the virus to her
child through breast milk.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may occur 1 to 14 days after becoming infected. Mild disease,
generally called West Nile fever, may cause some or all of the following
symptoms:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Fever, headache, and sore throat
    * Lack of appetite
    * Muscle aches
    * Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea
    * Rash
    * Swollen lymph nodes 

These symptoms usually last for 3 to 6 days, but may last a month.

More severe forms of disease are called West Nile encephalitis or West Nile
meningitis, depending on what part of the body is affected. The following
symptoms can occur, and need prompt attention:

    * Confusion or change in ability to think clearly
    * Loss of consciousness or coma
    * Muscle weakness
    * Stiff neck 
    * Weakness of one arm or leg 

## Exams and Tests

Signs of West Nile virus infection are similar to those of other viral
infections. There may be no specific findings on a physical examination. About
one half of people with West Nile virus infection may have a rash.

Tests to diagnose West Nile virus include:

    * Blood test or a spinal tap to check for antibodies against the virus
    * Head CT scan
    * Head MRI scan

## Treatment

Because this illness is not caused by bacteria, antibiotics do not treat West
Nile virus infection. Supportive care may help decrease the risk of developing
complications in severe illness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with mild West Nile virus infection do well after treatment.

For those with severe infection, the outlook is more uncertain. West Nile
encephalitis or meningitis may lead to brain damage and death. One in ten
people with brain inflammation do not survive.

## Possible Complications

Complications from mild West Nile virus infection are very rare.

Complications from severe West Nile virus infection include:

    * Brain damage
    * Permanent muscle weakness (sometimes similar to polio)
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of West Nile virus
infection, particularly if you may have had contact with mosquitoes. If you
are very sick, go to an emergency room.

There is no treatment to avoid getting West Nile virus infection after a
mosquito bite. People in good health generally do not develop a serious West
Nile infection.

## Prevention

The best way to prevent West Nile virus infection is to avoid mosquito bites:

    * Use mosquito-repellant products containing DEET
    * Wear long sleeves and pants
    * Drain pools of standing water, such as trash bins and plant saucers (mosquitos breed in stagnant water) 

Community spraying for mosquitoes may also reduce mosquito breeding.

## Alternative Names

Encephalitis - West Nile; Meningitis - West Nile

## Images

    * ![Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1246t.jpg)Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin
    * ![Mosquito, pupa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1250t.jpg)Mosquito, pupa
    * ![Mosquito egg raft](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1248t.jpg)Mosquito, egg raft
    * ![Mosquito, adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1247t.jpg)Mosquito, adult
    * ![Meninges of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19080t.jpg)Meninges of the brain

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. West Nile virus.
www.cdc.gov/westnile/index.html. Updated December 10, 2018. Accessed January
7, 2018.

Naides SJ. Arboviruses causing fever and rash syndromes. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 382.

Thomas SJ, Endy TP, Rothman AL, Barrett AD. Flaviviruses (dengue, yellow
fever, Japanese encephalitis, West Nile encephalitis, St. Louis encephalitis,
tick-borne encephalitis, Kyasanur forest disease, Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever,
Zika). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 155.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aedes aegypti
mosquito](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Zika,WestNile_thumb.jpg)West Nile
Virus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

