Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000224.htm    
                                Description: Campylobacter infection occurs in the small intestine from bacteria called Campylobacter jejuni. It is a type of food poisoning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Campylobacter infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000224.htm

# Campylobacter infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Campylobacter infection occurs in the small intestine from bacteria called
_Campylobacter jejuni_. It is a type of food poisoning.

## Causes

Campylobacter enteritis is a common cause of intestinal infection. These
bacteria are also one of the many causes of traveler's diarrhea or food
poisoning.

People most often get infected by eating or drinking food or water that
contains the bacteria. The most commonly contaminated foods are raw poultry,
fresh produce,Â and unpasteurized milk.

A person can also be infected by close contact with infected people or
animals.

## Symptoms

Symptoms start 2Â to 4 days after being exposed to the bacteria. They often
last a week, and may include:

    * Cramping abdominal pain
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Watery diarrhea, sometimes bloody

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. These tests may be
done:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) with differential
    * Stool sample testing for white blood cells
    * Stool culture for _Campylobacter jejuni_

## Treatment

The infection almost always goes away on its own, and often does not need to
be treated with antibiotics. Severe symptoms may improve with antibiotics.

The goal is to make you feel better and avoid dehydration. Dehydration is a
loss of water and other fluids in the body.

These things may help you feel better if you have diarrhea:

    * Drink 8 to 10 glasses of clear fluids every day.Â For people who do not have diabetes, fluids should contain salts and simple sugars. For those with diabetes, sugar-free fluids should be used.
    * Drink at least 1 cup (240 milliliters) of liquid every time you have a loose bowel movement.
    * Eat small meals throughout the day instead of 3 big meals.
    * Eat some salty foods, such as pretzels, soup, and sports drinks.
    * Eat some high-potassium foods, such as bananas, potatoes without the skin, and watered-down fruit juices.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover in 5Â to 8 days.

When a person's immune system does not work well, the _Campylobacter_
infection may spread to the heart or brain.

Other problems that may occur are:

    * A form of arthritis called reactive arthritis
    * A nerve problem called Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome, which leads to paralysis (rare)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have diarrhea that continues for more than 1 week or it comes back.
    * There is blood in your stools.
    * You have diarrhea and are unable to drink fluids due to nausea or vomiting.
    * You have a fever above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), and diarrhea.
    * You have signs of dehydration (thirst, dizziness, lightheadedness)
    * You have recently traveled to a foreign country and developed diarrhea.
    * Your diarrhea does not get better in 5 days, or it gets worse.
    * You have severe abdominal pain. 

Call your provider if your child has:

    * A fever above 100.4Â°F (37.7Â°C) and diarrhea
    * Diarrhea that does not get better in 2 days, or it gets worse
    * Been vomiting for more than 12 hours (in a newborn under 3 months you should call as soon as vomiting or diarrhea begins)
    * Reduced urine output, sunken eyes, sticky or dry mouth, or no tears when crying 

## Prevention

Learning how to prevent food poisoning can reduce the risk for this infection.

## Alternative Names

Food poisoning - campylobacter enteritis; Infectious diarrhea - campylobacter
enteritis; Bacterial diarrhea; Campy; Gastroenteritis - campylobacter; Colitis
- campylobacter

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

## Images

    * ![Campylobacter jejuni organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1050t.jpg)Campylobacter jejuni organism
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Allos BM. Campylobacter infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 303.

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Campylobacter
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CampylobacterInfections_thumb.jpg)Campylobacter
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

