Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001152.htm    
                                Description: Pinworms are small worms that infect the intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pinworms

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001152.htm

# Pinworms

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pinworms are small worms that infect the intestines.

## Causes

Pinworms are the most common worm infection in the United States. School-age
children are most often affected.

Pinworm eggs are spread directly from person to person. They can also be
spread by touching bedding, food, or other items that are contaminated with
the eggs.

Typically, children are infected by touching pinworm eggs without knowing it
and then putting their fingers in their mouth. They swallow the eggs, which
eventually hatch in the small intestine. The worms mature in the colon.

Female worms then move to the child's anal area, especially at night, and
deposit more eggs. This may cause intense itching. The area may even become
infected. When the child scratches the anal area, the eggs can get under the
child's fingernails. These eggs can be transferred to other children, family
members, and items in the house.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of pinworm infection include:

    * Difficulty sleeping due to the itching that occurs during the night
    * Intense itching around the anus
    * Irritability due to itching and interrupted sleep
    * Irritated or infected skin around the anus, from constant scratching
    * Irritation or discomfort of the vagina in young girls (if an adult worm enters the vagina rather than the anus)
    * Loss of appetite and weight (uncommon, but can occur in severe infections)

## Exams and Tests

Pinworms can be spotted in the anal area, mainly at night when the worms lay
their eggs there.

Your health care provider may have you do a tape test. A piece of cellophane
tape is pressed against the skin around the anus, and removed. This should be
done in the morning before bathing or using the toilet, because bathing and
wiping may remove eggs. The provider will stick the tape to a slide and look
for eggs using a microscope.

## Treatment

Anti-worm medicines are used to kill the pinworms (not their eggs). Your
provider will likely recommend one dose of medicine that is available over-
the-counter and by prescription.

More than one household member is likely to be infected, so the entire
household is often treated. Another dose is usually repeated after 2 weeks.
This treats worms that hatched since the first treatment.

To control the eggs:

    * Clean toilet seats daily
    * Keep fingernails short and clean
    * Wash all bed linens twice a week
    * Wash hands before meals and after using the toilet 

Avoid scratching the infected area around the anus. This can contaminate your
fingers and everything else that you touch.

Keep your hands and fingers away from your nose and mouth unless they are
freshly washed. Be extra careful while family members are being treated for
pinworms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pinworm infection is fully treatable with anti-worm medicine.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You or your child has symptoms of pinworm infection 
    * You have seen pinworms on your child 

## Prevention

Wash hands after using the bathroom and before preparing food. Wash bedding
and underclothing frequently, particularly those of any affected family
members.

## Alternative Names

Enterobiasis; Oxyuriasis; Threadworm; Seatworm; Enterobius vermicularis; E
vermicularis; Helminthic infection

## Images

    * ![Pinworm eggs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1004t.jpg)Pinworm eggs
    * ![Pinworm - close-up of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2631t.jpg)Pinworm - close-up of the head
    * ![Pinworms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9747t.jpg)Pinworms

## References

Elliott DE. Intestinal worms. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.Â
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 114.

Hotez PJ. Parasitic nematode infections. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan
SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 226.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Parasitic diseases. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 123.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pinworms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pinworm_thumb.jpg)Pinworms _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

