Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003452.htm    
                                Description: A pinworm test is a method used to identify a pinworm infection. Pinworms are small, thin worms that commonly infect young children, although anyone can be infected.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pinworm test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003452.htm

# Pinworm test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pinworm test is a method used to identify a pinworm infection. Pinworms are
small, thin worms that commonly infect young children, although anyone can be
infected.

## How the Test is Performed

When a person has a pinworm infection, adult pinworms live in the intestine
and colon. At night, the female adult worms deposit their eggs outside the
rectum or anal area.

One way to detect pinworms is to shine a flashlight on the anal area. The
worms are tiny, white, and threadlike. If none are seen, check for 2 or 3
additional nights.

The best way to diagnose this infection is to do a tape test. The best time to
do this is in the morning before bathing, because pinworms lay their eggs at
night.

Steps for the test are:

    * Firmly press the sticky side of a 1-inch (2.5 centimeters) strip of cellophane tape over the anal area for a few seconds. The eggs stick to the tape.
    * The tape is then transferred to a glass slide, sticky side down. Put the piece of tape in a plastic bag and seal the bag.
    * Wash your hands well.
    * Take the bag to your health care provider. The provider needs to check the tape to see if there are eggs.

The tape test may need to be done on 3 separate days to improve the chances of
detecting the eggs.

You may be given a special pinworm test kit. If so, follow instructions on how
to use it.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

The skin around the anus may have minor irritation from the tape.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is performed to check for pinworms, which can cause itching in the
anal area.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If adult pinworms or eggs are found, the person has a pinworm infection.
Usually the whole family needs to be treated with medicine. This is because
pinworms are easily passed back and forth between family members.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Oxyuriasis test; Enterobiasis test; Tape test

## Images

    * ![Pinworm eggs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1004t.jpg)Pinworm eggs
    * ![Pinworm - close-up of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2631t.jpg)Pinworm - close-up of the head
    * ![Pinworms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9747t.jpg)Pinworms

## References

Dent AE, Kazura JW. Enterobiasis ( _Enterobius vermicularis_ ). In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 294.

Maguire JH. Intestinal nematodes (roundworms). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 288.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pinworms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pinworm_thumb.jpg)Pinworms _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

