Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000425.htm    
                                Description: Tuberculosis (TB) is a contagious bacterial infection that involves the lungs, but may spread to other organs. The goal of treatment is to cure the infection with medicines that fight the TB bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking medicines to treat tuberculosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000425.htm

# Taking medicines to treat tuberculosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tuberculosis (TB) is a contagious bacterial infection that involves the lungs,
but may spread to other organs. The goal of treatment is to cure the infection
with medicines that fight the TB bacteria.

## Why Do You Need Medicines for TB?

You may have a TB infection but no active disease or symptoms. This means the
TB bacteria remain inactive (dormant) in a small area of your lungs. This type
of infection may be present for years and is called latent TB. With latent TB:

    * You cannot spread TB to other people.
    * In some people, the bacteria can become active. If this happens, you may become sick, and you can pass the TB germs to someone else.
    * Even though you do not feel sick, you need to take medicines to treat latent TB for 6 to 9 months. This is the only way to make sure all of the TB bacteria in your body are killed and you do not develop active infection in the future. 

When you have active TB, you may feel sick or have a cough, lose weight, feel
tired, or have a fever or night sweats. With active TB:

    * You can pass TB to people around you. This includes people you live, work, or come in close contact with.
    * You need to take many medicines for TB for at least 6 months to rid your body of the TB bacteria. You should begin to feel better within a month of starting the medicines.
    * For the first 2 to 4 weeks after starting the medicines, you may need to stay home to avoid spreading TB to others. Ask your health care provider when it is OK to be around other people.
    * Your provider is required by law to report your TB to the local public health department. 

Ask your provider if people you live or work with should be tested for TB.

## How to Take the Medicines?

TB germs die very slowly. You need to take several different pills at
different times of the day for 6 months or longer. The only way to get rid of
the germs is to take your TB medicines the way your provider has instructed.
This means taking all of your medicines every day.

If you do not take your TB medicines the right way, or stop taking the
medicines early:

    * Your TB infection may become worse.
    * Your infection may become harder to treat. The drugs you are taking may no longer work. This is called drug-resistant TB.
    * You may need to take other medicines that cause more side effects and are less able to remove the infection.
    * You may spread the infection to others. 

If your provider is worried that you may not be taking all the medicines as
directed, they may arrange to have someone meet with you every day or a few
times a week to watch you take your TB drugs. This is called directly observed
therapy.

## Side Effects and Other Problems

Women who may be pregnant, who are pregnant, or who are breastfeeding should
talk to their provider before taking these medicines. If you are using birth
control pills, ask your provider if your TB medicines can make birth control
pills less effective.

Most people do not have very bad side effects from TB medicines. Problems to
watch out for and tell your provider about include:

    * Achy joints
    * Bruising or easy bleeding
    * Fever
    * Poor appetite, or no appetite
    * Tingling or aches in your toes, fingers, or around your mouth
    * Upset stomach, nausea or vomiting, and stomach cramps or pain
    * Yellow skin or eyes 
    * Urine is the color of tea or is orange (orange urine is normal with some of the medicines)

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Any of the side effects listed above
    * New symptoms of active TB, such as cough, fever or night sweats, shortness of breath, or pain in the chest

## Alternative Names

Tuberculosis - medicines; DOT; Directly observed therapy; TB - medicines

## References

Ellner JJ, Jacobson KR. Tuberculosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 308.

Hopewell PC, Kato-Maeda M, Ernst JD. Tuberculosis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 35.

## Review Date 10/14/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Tuberculosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

