Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003839.htm    
                                Description: The PPD skin test is a method used to diagnose silent (latent) tuberculosis (TB) infection. PPD stands for purified protein derivative.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

PPD skin test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003839.htm

# PPD skin test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The PPD skin test is a method used to diagnose silent (latent) tuberculosis
(TB) infection. PPD stands for purified protein derivative.

## How the Test is Performed

You will need two visits to your health care provider's office for this test.

At the first visit, the provider will clean an area of your skin, usually the
inside of your forearm. You will get a small shot (injection) that contains
PPD. The needle is gently placed under the top layer of skin, causing a bump
(welt) to form. This bump usually goes away in a few hours as the material is
absorbed.

After 48 to 72 hours, you must return to your provider's office. Your provider
will check the area to see if you have had a strong reaction to the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for this test.

Tell your provider if you have ever had a positive PPD skin test. If so, you
should not have a repeat PPD test, except under unusual circumstances.

Tell your provider if you have a medical condition or if you take certain
medicines, such as steroids, which can affect your immune system. These
situations may lead to inaccurate test results.

Tell your provider if you have received the BCG vaccine and if so, when you
received it. (This vaccine is only given outside of the United States).

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a brief sting as the needle is inserted just below the skin
surface.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to find out if you have ever come in contact with the
bacteria that cause TB.

TB is an easily spread (contagious) disease. It most often affects the lungs.
The bacteria can remain inactive (dormant) in the lungs for many years. This
situation is called latent TB.

Most people in the United States who are infected with the bacteria do not
have signs or symptoms of active TB.

You are most likely to need this test if you:

    * May have been around someone with TB
    * Work in health care
    * Have a weakened immune system, due to certain medicines or disease (such as cancer or HIV/AIDS) 

## Normal Results

A negative reaction usually means you have never been infected with the
bacteria that cause TB.

With a negative reaction, the skin where you received the PPD test is not
swollen, or the swelling is very small. This measurement is different for
children, people with HIV, and other high-risk groups.

The PPD skin test is not a perfect screening test. A few people infected with
the bacteria that cause TB may not have a reaction. Also, diseases or
medicines that weaken the immune system may cause a false-negative result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal (positive) result means you have been infected with the bacteria
that cause TB. You may need treatment to lower the risk of the disease coming
back (reactivation of the disease). A positive skin test does not mean that a
person has active TB. More tests must be done to check whether there is active
disease.

A small reaction (5 mm of firm swelling at the site) is considered to be
positive in people:

    * Who have HIV/AIDS
    * Who have received an organ transplant
    * Who have a suppressed immune system or are taking steroid therapy (about 15 mg of prednisone per day for 1 month)
    * Who have been in close contact with a person who has active TB
    * Who have changes on a chest x-ray that look like past TB 

Larger reactions (larger than or equal to 10 mm) are considered positive in:

    * People with a known negative test in the past 2 years
    * People with diabetes, kidney failure, or other conditions that increase their chance of getting active TB
    * Health care workers
    * Injection drug users
    * Immigrants who have moved from a country with a high TB rate in the past 5 years
    * Children under age 4
    * Infants, children, or adolescents who are exposed to high-risk adults
    * Students and employees of certain group living settings, such as prisons, nursing homes, and homeless shelters 

In people with no known risks of TB, 15 mm or more of firm swelling at the
site indicates a positive reaction.

People who were born outside the United States who have had a vaccine called
BCG may have a false-positive test result.

## Risks

There is a very small risk for severe redness and swelling of the arm in
people who have had a previous positive PPD test and who have the test again.
This reaction can also occur in a few people who have not been tested before.

## Alternative Names

Purified protein derivative standard; TB skin test; Tuberculin skin test;
Mantoux test

## Images

    * ![Tuberculosis in the kidney](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1033t.jpg)Link_Unknown
    * ![Tuberculosis in the lung](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1034t.jpg)Tuberculosis in the lung
    * ![Positive PPD skin test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3037t.jpg)Positive PPD skin test
    * ![PPD skin test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9773t.jpg)PPD skin test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Mantoux skin test (PPD test, purified protein
derivative test, Tb test, tuberculin skin test, TST, tuberculosis test) -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:764-765.

Fitzgerald DW, Sterling TR, Haas DW. _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 251.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

