Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000077.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) is a contagious bacterial infection that involves the lungs. It may spread to other organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary tuberculosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000077.htm

# Pulmonary tuberculosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) is a contagious bacterial infection that involves
the lungs. It may spread to other organs.

## Causes

Pulmonary TB is caused by the bacterium _Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M
tuberculosis)_. TB is contagious. This means the bacteria is easily spread
from an infected person to someone else. You can get TB by breathing in air
droplets from a cough or sneeze of an infected person. The resulting lung
infection is called primary TB.

Most people recover from primary TB infection without further evidence of the
disease. The infection may stay inactive (dormant) for years. In some people,
it becomes active again (reactivates).

Most people who develop symptoms of a TB infection first became infected in
the past. In some cases, the disease becomes active within weeks after the
primary infection.

The following people are at higher risk of active TB or reactivation of TB:

    * Older adults
    * Infants
    * People with weakened immune systems, for example due to HIV/AIDS, chemotherapy, diabetes, or medicines that weaken the immune system

Your risk of catching TB increases if you:

    * Are around people who have TB
    * Live in crowded or unclean living conditions
    * Have poor nutrition

The following factors can increase the rate of TB infection in a population:

    * Increase in HIV infections
    * Increase in number of homeless people (poor environment and nutrition)
    * Presence of drug-resistant strains of TB

## Symptoms

The primary stage of TB does not cause symptoms. When symptoms of pulmonary TB
occur, they can include:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Chest pain
    * Cough (usually with mucus)
    * Coughing up blood
    * Excessive sweating, particularly at night
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Weight loss
    * Wheezing

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

    * Clubbing of the fingers or toes (in people with advanced disease)
    * Swollen or tender lymph nodes in the neck or other areas
    * Fluid around a lung (pleural effusion)
    * Unusual breath sounds (crackles) 

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * BronchoscopyÂ (test that uses a scope to view the airways)
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Interferon-gamma release blood test, such as the QFT-Gold test to test for TB infection (active or infection in the past)
    * Sputum examination and cultures
    * ThoracentesisÂ (procedure to remove fluid from the space between the lining of the outside of the lungs and the wall of the chest)
    * Tuberculin skin test (also called a PPD test)
    * Biopsy of the affected tissue (done rarely) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection with medicines that fight the
TB bacteria. Active pulmonary TB is treated with a combination of many
medicines (usually 4 medicines). The person takes the medicines until lab
tests show which medicines work best.

You may need to take many different pills at different times of the day for 6
months or longer. It is very important that you take the pills the way your
provider instructed.

When peopleÂ do notÂ take their TB medicines like they are supposed to, the
infection can become much more difficult to treat. The TB bacteria can become
resistant to treatment. This means the medicines no longer work.

If a person is not taking all the medicines as directed, a provider may need
to watch the person take the prescribed medicines. This approach is called
directly observed therapy. In this case, medicines may be given 2 or 3 times a
week.

You may need to stay at home or be admitted to a hospital for 2 to 4 weeks to
avoid spreading the disease to others until you are no longer contagious.

Your provider is required by law to report your TB illness to the local health
department. Your health care team will ensure that you receive the best care.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you feel more in
control.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms often improve in 2 to 3 weeks after starting treatment. A chest x-ray
will not show this improvement until weeks or months later. Outlook is
excellent if pulmonary TB is diagnosed early and effective treatment is
started quickly.

## Possible Complications

Pulmonary TB can cause permanent lung damage if not treated early. It can also
spread to other parts of the body.

Medicines used to treat TB may cause side effects, including:

    * Changes in vision
    * Orange- or brown-colored tears and urine
    * Rash
    * Liver inflammation

A vision test may be done before start of treatment so your provider can
monitor any changes in the health of your eyes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You think or know you have been exposed to TB
    * You develop symptoms of TB
    * Your symptoms continue despite treatment
    * New symptoms develop 

## Prevention

TB is preventable, even in those who have been exposed to an infected person.
Skin testing for TB is used in high risk populations or in people who may have
been exposed to TB, such as health care workers.

People who have been exposed to TB should have a skin test as soon as possible
and have a follow-up test at a later date, if the first test is negative.

A positive skin test means you have come into contact with the TB bacteria. It
does not mean that you have active TB or are contagious. Talk to your provider
about how to prevent getting TB.

Prompt treatment is very important in preventing the spread of TB from those
who have active TB to those who have never been infected with TB.

Some countries with a high incidence of TB give people a vaccine called BCG to
prevent TB. But, the effectiveness of this vaccine is limited and it is not
usually used in the United States.

People who have had BCG may still be skin tested for TB. Discuss the test
results (if positive) with your provider.

## Alternative Names

TB; Tuberculosis - pulmonary; Mycobacterium - pulmonaryÂ

## Images

    * ![Tuberculosis in the kidney](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1033t.jpg)Tuberculosis in the kidney
    * ![Tuberculosis in the lung](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1034t.jpg)Tuberculosis in the lung
    * ![Tuberculosis, advanced - chest X-rays](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1607t.jpg)Tuberculosis, advanced - chest x-rays
    * ![Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1610t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1611t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan
    * ![Miliary tuberculosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17260t.jpg)Miliary tuberculosis
    * ![Tuberculosis of the lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19099t.jpg)Tuberculosis of the lungs
    * ![Erythema nodosum associated with sarcoidosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2532t.jpg)Erythema nodosum associated with sarcoidosis
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system
    * ![Tuberculin skin test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9991t.jpg)Tuberculin skin test

## References

Fitzgerald DW, Sterling TR, Haas DW. Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In: Bennett
JE, Dolan R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 251.

Hopewell PC, Kato-Maeda M, Ernst JD. Tuberculosis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 35.

Nahid P, Dorman SE, Alipanah N, et al. Official American Thoracic
Society/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Infectious Diseases Society
of America clinical practice guidelines: treatment of drug-susceptible
tuberculosis. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2016;63(7):e147-e195. PMID: 27516382
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27516382.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

