Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003378.htm    
                                Description: Gastric culture is a test to check a child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastric culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003378.htm

# Gastric culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastric culture is a test to check a child's stomach contents for the bacteria
that cause tuberculosis (TB).

## How the Test is Performed

A flexible tube is gently placed through the child's nose and into the
stomach. The child may be given a glass of water and asked to swallow while
the tube is inserted. Once the tube is in the stomach, the health care
provider uses a syringe to remove a sample of the stomach contents.

The tube is then gently removed through the nose. The sample is sent to a lab.
There, it is placed in a special dish called a culture medium and watched for
the growth of bacteria.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your child will need to fast for 8 to 10 hours before the test. This means
your child cannot eat and drink anything during that time.

The sample is collected in the morning. For this reason, your child will
likely be admitted to the hospital the night before the test. The tube can
then be placed in the evening, and the test done first thing in the morning.

How you prepare your child for this test depends on your child's age, past
experience, and level of trust. Follow your provider's instructions on how to
prepare your child.

Related topics include:

    * Infant test or procedure preparation (birth to 1 year)
    * Toddler test or procedure preparation (1 to 3 years)
    * Preschooler test or procedure preparation (3 to 6 years)
    * School age test or procedure preparation (6 to 12 years)
    * Adolescent test or procedure preparation (12 to 18 years) 

## How the Test will Feel

While the tube is being passed through the nose and throat, your child will
feel some discomfort and may also feel like vomiting.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test can help diagnose lung (pulmonary) TB in children. This method is
used because children cannot cough up and spit out mucus until about age 8.
They swallow the mucus, instead. (That is why young children only rarely
spread TB to others.)

The test may also be done to help identify viruses, fungi, and bacteria in the
gastric contents of people with cancer, AIDS, or other conditions that cause a
weakened immune system.

The final results of the gastric culture test may take several weeks. Your
provider will decide whether to start treatment before knowing the test
results.

## Normal Results

The bacteria that cause TB are not found in the stomach contents.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the bacteria that cause TB grow from the gastric culture, TB is diagnosed.
Because these bacteria grow slowly, it may take up to 6 weeks to confirm the
diagnosis.

A test called a TB smear will be done first on the sample. If the results are
positive, treatment may be started right away. Be aware that a negative TB
smear result does not rule out TB.

This test can also be used to detect other forms of bacteria that do not cause
TB.

## Risks

Anytime a nasogastric tube is inserted down the throat, there is a small
chance it will enter the windpipe. If this happens, your child may cough,
gasp, and have trouble breathing until the tube is removed. There is also a
small chance that some of the stomach contents may enter the lung.

## References

Cruz AT, Starke JR. Tuberculosis. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 96.

Fitzgerald DW, Sterling TR, Haas DW. Mycobacterium tuberculosis.In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennettâs Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2020:chap 249.

Hatzenbuehler LA, Starke JR. Tuberculosis (Mycobacterium tuberculosis). In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 242.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Tuberculosis. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds.
_Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 124.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

