Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001354.htm    
                                Description: Scrofula is a tuberculosis infection of the lymph nodes in the neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scrofula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001354.htm

# Scrofula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scrofula is a tuberculosis infection of the lymph nodes in the neck.

## Causes

Scrofula is most often caused by the bacteria _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_.
There are many other types of mycobacterium bacteria that cause scrofula.

Scrofula is usually caused by breathing in air that is contaminated with
mycobacterium bacteria. The bacteria then travel from the lungs to lymph nodes
in the neck.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of scrofula are:

    * Fevers (rare)
    * Painless swelling of lymph nodes in the neck and other areas of the body
    * Sores (rare)
    * Sweating

## Exams and Tests

Tests to diagnose scrofula include:

    * Biopsy of affected tissue
    * Chest x-rays
    * CT scan of the neck
    * Cultures to check for the bacteria in tissue samples taken from the lymph nodes
    * HIV blood test
    * PPD test (also called TB test)
    * Other tests for tuberculosis (TB) including blood tests to detect if you have been exposed to TB

## Treatment

When infection is caused by _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ , treatment usually
involves 9 to 12 months of antibiotics. Several antibiotics need to be used at
once. Common antibiotics for scrofula include:

    * Ethambutol
    * Isoniazid (INH)
    * Pyrazinamide
    * Rifampin 

When infection is caused by another type of mycobacteria (which often occurs
in children), treatment usually involves antibiotics such as:

    * Rifampin
    * Ethambutol
    * Clarithromycin 

Surgery is sometimes used first. It may also be done if the medicines are not
working.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, people often make a complete recovery.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur from this infection:

    * Draining sore in the neck
    * Scarring 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child has a swelling or group of
swellings in the neck. Scrofula can occur in children who have not been
exposed to someone with tuberculosis.

## Prevention

People who have been exposed to someone with tuberculosis of the lungs should
have a PPD test.

## Alternative Names

Tuberculous adenitis; Tuberculous cervical lymphadenitis; TB - scrofula

## References

Pasternack MS, Swartz MN. Lymphadenitis and lymphangitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 97.

Wenig BM. Non-neoplastic lesions of the neck. In: Wenig BM, ed. _Atlas of Head
and Neck Pathology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

