Link: https://medlineplus.gov/tetanusdiphtheriaandpertussisvaccines.html    
                                Description: This page will teach you about combinations of vaccines for tetanus, diphtheria, and whooping cough. Find out who should get which vaccine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines

URL of this page:
https://medlineplus.gov/tetanusdiphtheriaandpertussisvaccines.html

#  Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines

Also called: DTaP, DTaP/Tdap/Td, Td, Td vaccination booster, Tdap, Tetanus
booster

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough) are serious bacterial
infections. Tetanus causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over
the body. It can lead to "locking" of the jaw. Diphtheria usually affects the
nose and throat. Whooping cough causes uncontrollable coughing. Vaccines can
protect you from these diseases. In the U.S., there are four combination
vaccines:

    * DTaP prevents all three diseases. It is for children younger than seven years old.
    * Tdap also prevents all three. It is for older children and adults.
    * DT prevents diphtheria and tetanus. It is for children younger than seven who cannot tolerate the pertussis vaccine.
    * Td prevents diphtheria and tetanus. It is for older children and adults. It is usually given as a booster dose every 10 years. You may also get it earlier if you get a severe and dirty wound or burn.

Some people should not get these vaccines, including those who have had severe
reactions to the shots before. Check with your doctor first if you have
seizures, a neurologic problem, or Guillain-Barre syndrome. Also let your
doctor know if you don't feel well the day of the shot; you may need to
postpone it.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis: Ask the Experts (Immunization Action Coalition)
    * DTaP Vaccine (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Td Vaccine (Tetanus and Diphtheria): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Tdap Vaccine (Tetanus, Diphtheria and Pertussis): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Diphtheria Vaccination (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Pertussis (Whooping Cough) Vaccination (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tetanus (Lockjaw) Vaccination (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Family Health Days program contributions in vaccination of unreached and under-immunized...
    * Article: Vaccination Coverage with Selected Vaccines and Exemption Rates Among Children in...
    * Article: Recurrent immune thrombocytopenia following different vaccines.
    * Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines -- see more articles

## Children

    * Diphtheria and the Vaccine (Shot) to Prevent It: Information for Parents (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Tetanus and the Vaccine (Shot) to Prevent It: Information for Parents (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Whooping Cough and the Vaccine (Shot) to Prevent It: Information for Parents (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Your Child's Immunizations: Diphtheria, Tetanus & Pertussis Vaccine (DTaP) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Tdap Booster Requirements for Secondary Schools (Immunization Action Coalition)
    * Whooping Cough and the Pertussis Vaccine (Children's Hospital Boston) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Pregnancy and Whooping Cough (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis) Vaccine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * DTaP Vaccine (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Td Vaccine (Tetanus and Diphtheria): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Tdap Vaccine (Tetanus, Diphtheria and Pertussis): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis
Vaccines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TetanusDiphtheriaandPertussisVaccines.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Childhood Immunization
    * Diphtheria
    * Immunization
    * Tetanus
    * Whooping Cough

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Tetanus, Diphtheria, and
Pertussis Vaccines is the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Tetanus,
Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 22 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 19 January 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

