Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000678.htm    
                                Description: The common cold most often causes a runny nose, nasal congestion, and sneezing. You may also have a sore throat, cough, headache, or other symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Common cold

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000678.htm

# Common cold

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The common cold most often causes a runny nose, nasal congestion, and
sneezing. You may also have a sore throat, cough, headache, or other symptoms.

## Causes

It is called the common cold for good reason. There are over _one billion_
colds in the United States each year. You and your children will probably have
more colds than any other type of illness.

Colds are the most common reason that children miss school and parents miss
work. Parents often get colds from their children.

Children can get many colds every year. They usually get them from other
children. A cold can spread quickly through schools or daycares.

Colds can occur at any time of the year, but they are most common in the
winter or rainy seasons.

A cold virus spreads through tiny, air droplets that are released when the
sick person sneezes, coughs, or blows their nose.

You can catch a cold if:

    * A person with a cold sneezes, coughs, or blows their nose near you
    * You touch your nose, eyes, or mouth after you have touched something contaminated by the virus, such as a toy or doorknob 

People are most contagious for the first 2 to 3 days of a cold. A cold is most
often not contagious after the first week.

## Symptoms

Cold symptoms usually start about 2 or 3 days after you came in contact with
the virus, although it could take up to a week. Symptoms mostly affect the
nose.

The most common cold symptoms are:

    * Nasal congestion
    * Runny nose
    * Scratchy throat
    * Sneezing

Adults and older children with colds generally have a low fever or no fever.
Young children often run a fever around 100Â°F to 102Â°F (37.7Â°C to 38.8Â°C).

Depending on which virus caused your cold, you may also have:

    * Cough
    * Decreased appetite
    * Headache
    * Muscle aches
    * Postnasal drip
    * Sore throat 
![Cold symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19656.jpg)

## Treatment

Most colds go away in a few days. Some things you can do to take care of
yourself with a cold include:

    * Get plenty of rest and drink fluids.
    * Over-the-counter (OTC) cold and cough medicines may help ease symptoms in adults and older children. They do not make your cold go away faster, but can help you feel better. These OTC medicines are not recommended for children under age 4.
    * Antibiotics should not be used to treat a common cold.
    * Many alternative treatments have been tried for colds, such as vitamin C, zinc supplements, and echinacea. Talk to your health care provider before trying any herbs or supplements.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The fluid from your runny nose will become thicker. It may turn yellow or
green within a few days. This is normal, and not a reason for antibiotics.

Most cold symptoms go away within a week in most cases. If you still feel sick
after 7 days, see your provider. Your provider may checkÂ to rule out a sinus
infection, allergies, or other medical problem.

## Possible Complications

Colds are the most common trigger of wheezing in children with asthma.

A cold may also lead to:

    * Bronchitis
    * Ear infection
    * Pneumonia
    * Sinusitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Try treating your cold at home first. Call your provider if:

    * You have problems breathing.
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not improve after 7 to 10 days.

## Prevention

To lower your chances of getting sick:

    * Always wash your hands. Children and adults should wash hands after nose-wiping, diapering, and using the bathroom, and before eating and preparing food.
    * Disinfect your environment. Clean commonly touched surfaces (such as sink handles, door knobs, and sleeping mats) with an EPA-approved disinfectant.
    * Choose smaller daycare classes for your children.
    * Use instant hand sanitizers to stop the spread of germs.
    * Use paper towels instead of sharing cloth towels. 

The immune system helps your body fight off infection. Here are ways to
support the immune system:

    * Avoid secondhand smoke. It is responsible for many health problems, including colds.
    * DO NOT use antibiotics if they are not needed.
    * Breastfeed infants if possible. Breast milk is known to protect against respiratory tract infections in children, even years after you stop breastfeeding.
    * Drink plenty of fluids to help your immune system work properly.
    * Eat yogurt that contains "active cultures." These may help prevent colds. Probiotics may help prevent colds in children.
    * Get enough sleep. 

## Alternative Names

Upper respiratory infection - viral; Cold

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Cold symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19656t.jpg)Cold symptoms
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Cold remedies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9204t.jpg)Cold remedies

## References

Allan GM, Arroll B. Prevention and treatment of the common cold: making sense
of the evidence. _CMAJ_. 2014;186(3):190-199. PMID: 24468694
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24468694.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Common colds: protect yourself and
others. www.cdc.gov/Features/Rhinoviruses/index.html. Updated February 11,
2019. Accessed March 1, 2019.

Miller EK, Williams JV. The common cold. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 379.

Turner RB. The common cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 361.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Cold](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonCold_thumb.jpg)Common Cold
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

