Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002145.htm    
                                Description: Popular belief is that vitamin C can cure the common cold. However, research about this claim is conflicting.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin C and colds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002145.htm

# Vitamin C and colds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Popular belief is that vitamin C can cure the common cold. However, research
about this claim is conflicting.

Although not fully proven, large doses of vitamin C may help reduce how long a
cold lasts. They do not protect against getting a cold. Vitamin C may also be
helpful for those exposed to brief periods of severe or extreme physical
activity.

The likelihood of success may vary from person to person. Some people improve,
while others do not. Taking 1000 to 2000 mg per day can be safely tried by
most people. Taking too much can cause stomach upset.

People with kidney disease should NOT take vitamin C supplements.

Large doses of vitamin C supplementation are not recommended during pregnancy.

A balanced diet almost always provides the required vitamin and minerals for
the day.

## Alternative Names

Colds and vitamin C

## Images

    * ![Vitamin C and colds](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10028t.jpg)Vitamin C and colds

## References

Morse CG, High KP. Nutrition, immunity, and infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 11.

National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements website. Fact
sheet for health professionals: vitamin C.
www.ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminC-Consumer/. Updated February 17, 2016.
Accessed February 10, 2018.

Shah D, Sachdev HPS. Vitamin C (ascorbic acid). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 50.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Cold](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonCold_thumb.jpg)Common Cold
_Read more_

![Vitamina C](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminC2_thumb.jpg)Vitamin C
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

