Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000250.htm    
                                Description: Many different germs, called viruses, cause colds. Symptoms of the common cold include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000250.htm

# Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many different germs, called viruses, cause colds. Symptoms of the common cold
include:

    * Runny nose
    * Nasal congestion
    * Sneezing
    * Sore throat
    * Cough
    * Headache 

The flu is an infection of the nose, throat, and lungs caused by the influenza
virus.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your child's health care provider
to help you take care of your child with a cold or the flu.

## Questions

What are the symptoms of a cold? What are the symptoms of the flu? How can I
tell them apart?

    * Will my child have a fever? How high? How long will it last? Can a high fever be dangerous? Do I need to worry about my child having febrile seizures?
    * Will my child have a cough? Sore throat? Runny nose? Headache? Other symptoms? How long will these symptoms last? Will my child be tired or achy?
    * How will I know if my child has an ear infection? How will I know if my child has pneumonia?
    * How will I know if my child has swine flu (H1N1) or another type of flu? 

Can other people become sick from being around my child? How can I prevent
that? What should I do if I have other young children at home? How about
somebody who is elderly?

When will my child start to feel better? When should I worry if my child's
symptoms have not gone away?

What should my child eat or drink? How much? How will I know if my child is
not drinking enough?

What medicines can I buy at the store to help with my child's symptoms?

    * Can my child take aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)? How about acetaminophen (Tylenol)?
    * Can my child take cold medicines?
    * Can my child's doctor prescribe stronger medicines to help the symptoms?
    * Can my child take vitamins or herbs to make the cold or flu go away quicker? How do I know if the vitamins or herbs are safe? 

Will antibiotics make my child's symptoms go away faster? Are there medicines
that can make the flu go away faster?

How can I keep my child from getting a cold or the flu?

    * Can children have flu shots? What time of year should the flu shot be given? Does my child need one or two flu shots every year? What are the risks of the flu shot? What are the risks for my child by not getting a flu shot? Does the regular flu shot protect my child against swine flu?
    * Will a flu shot keep my child from getting colds all year long?
    * Can being around smokers cause my child to get the flu more easily?
    * Can my child take vitamins or herbs to prevent the flu? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about colds and the flu - child; Influenza - what to
ask your doctor - child; Upper respiratory infection - what to ask your doctor
- child; URI - what to ask your doctor - child; Swine flu (H1N1) - what to ask
your doctor - child

## Images

    * ![Cold remedies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9204t.jpg)Cold remedies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Flu: what to do if you get
sick. www.cdc.gov/flu/treatment/takingcare.htm. Updated February 28, 2019.
Accessed August 7, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Key facts about seasonal
flu vaccine. www.cdc.gov/flu/prevent/keyfacts.htm. Updated October 21, 2019.
Accessed October 28, 2019.

Havers FP, Campbell AJP. Influenza viruses. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 258.

Miller EK, Williams JV. The common cold. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 379.

## Read More

    * Acute respiratory distress syndrome
    * Avian influenza
    * Common cold
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Flu
    * H1N1 influenza (Swine flu)
    * Immune response
    * Stuffy or runny nose - children

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * When your baby or infant has a fever

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 10-28-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Common Cold
    * Flu

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

