Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000466.htm    
                                Description: Colds are very common. A visit to your health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to treat the common cold at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000466.htm

# How to treat the common cold at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Colds are very common. A visit to your health care provider's office is often
not needed, and colds often get better in 3 to 4 days.

A type of germ called a virus causes most colds. There are many types of
viruses that can cause a cold. Depending on what virus you have, your symptoms
may vary.

Common symptoms of a cold include:

    * Fever (100Â°F [37.7Â°C] or higher) and chills
    * Headache, sore muscles, and fatigue
    * Cough
    * Nasal symptoms, such as stuffiness, runny nose, yellow or green snot, and sneezing
    * Sore throat 

## Treating Your Cold

Treating your symptoms will not make your cold go away, but will help you feel
better. Antibiotics are almost never needed to treat a common cold.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help lower fever and
relieve muscle aches.

    * DO NOT use aspirin.
    * Check the label for the proper dose.
    * Call your provider if you need to take these medicines more than 4 times per day or for more than 2 or 3 days. 

Over-the-counter (OTC) cold and cough medicines may help ease symptoms in
adults and older children.

    * They are not recommended for children under age 6. Talk to your provider before giving your child OTC cold medicine, which can have serious side effects.
    * Coughing is your body's way of getting mucus out of your lungs. So use cough syrups only when your cough becomes too painful.
    * Throat lozenges or sprays for your sore throat. 

Many cough and cold medicines you buy have more than one medicine inside. Read
the labels carefully to make sure you do not take too much of any one
medicine. If you take prescription medicines for another health problem, ask
your provider which OTC cold medicines are safe for you.

Drink plenty of fluids, get enough sleep, and stay away from secondhand smoke.

Wheezing can be a common symptom of a cold if you have asthma.

    * Use your rescue inhaler as prescribed if you are wheezing.
    * See your provider immediately if it becomes hard to breathe. 

## Home Remedies

Many home remedies are popular treatments for the common cold. These include
vitamin C, zinc supplements, and echinacea.

Although not proven to be helpful, most home remedies are safe for most
people.

    * Some remedies may cause side effects or allergic reactions.
    * Certain remedies may change the way other medicines work.
    * Talk to your provider before trying any herbs and supplements. 

## Preventing the Spread of Colds

Wash your hands often. This is the best way to stop the spread of germs.

To wash your hands correctly:

    * Rub soap onto wet hands for 20 seconds. Make sure to get under your fingernails. Dry your hands with a clean paper towel and turn faucet off with paper towel.
    * You can also use alcohol-based hand sanitizers. Use a dime size amount and rub all over your hands until they are dry. 

To further prevent colds:

    * Stay home when you are sick.
    * Cough or sneeze into a tissue or into the crook of your elbow and not into the air.

## When to Call the Doctor

Try treating your cold at home first. Call your provider right away, or go to
the emergency room, if you have:

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Sudden chest pain or abdominal pain
    * Sudden dizziness
    * Acting strangely
    * Severe vomiting that does not go away 

Also call your provider if:

    * You start acting strangely
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not improve after 7 to 10 days 

## Alternative Names

Upper respiratory infection - home care; URI - home care

## Images

    * ![Cold remedies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9204t.jpg)Cold remedies

## References

Miller EK, Williams JV. The common cold. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 379.

Turner RB. The common cold. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 58.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Common Cold

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

