Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000249.htm    
                                Description: Many different germs, called viruses, cause colds. Symptoms of the common cold include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000249.htm

# Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many different germs, called viruses, cause colds. Symptoms of the common cold
include:

    * Runny nose
    * Nasal congestion
    * Sneezing
    * Sore throat
    * Cough
    * Headache 

The flu is an infection of the nose, throat, and lungs caused by the influenza
virus.

Many flu symptoms are similar to those of a common cold. Flu symptoms can also
include fever, muscle aches, fatigue, vomiting, and diarrhea.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your cold or flu.

## Questions

What are the symptoms of a cold? What are the symptoms of the flu? How can I
tell them apart?

    * Will I have a fever? How high? How long will it last? Can a high fever be dangerous?
    * Will I have a cough? Sore throat? Runny nose? Headache? Other symptoms? How long will these symptoms last? Will I be tired or achy?
    * How will I know if I have an ear infection?
    * How will I know if I have pneumonia?

Can I make other people sick? How can I prevent that? What should I do if I
have a young child at home? How about somebody who is older?

When will I start to feel better?

What should I eat or drink? How much?

What medicines can I buy to help with my symptoms?

    * Can I take aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)? How about acetaminophen (Tylenol)? How about cold medicines?
    * Can my provider prescribe stronger medicines to help improve my symptoms?
    * Can I take vitamins or herbs to make my cold or flu go away quicker? How do I know if they are safe? 

Will antibiotics make my symptoms go away faster?

Are there other medicines that can make the flu go away faster?

How can I keep from getting a cold or the flu?

    * Should I get a flu shot? What time of year should I get one? Do I need one or two flu shots every year? What are the risks of the flu shot? What are the risks for me if I do not get a flu shot? Does the regular flu shot protect against swine flu?
    * Is a flu shot safe for me if I am pregnant?
    * Will a flu shot keep me from getting colds all year long?
    * Can smoking or being around smokers cause me to get the flu more easily?
    * Can I take vitamins or herbs to prevent the flu? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about colds and the flu - adult; Influenza - what to
ask your doctor - adult; Upper respiratory infection - what to ask your doctor
- adult; URI - what to ask your doctor - adult; H1N1 (Swine) flu - what to ask
your doctor - adult

## Images

    * ![Cold remedies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9204t.jpg)Cold remedies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Key facts about seasonal
flu vaccine. www.cdc.gov/flu/prevent/keyfacts.htm. Updated October 21, 2019.
Accessed October 28, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Flu: what to do if you get
sick. www.cdc.gov/flu/treatment/takingcare.htm. Updated February 28, 2019.
Accessed August 7, 2019

Hayden FG. Influenza. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 364.

Turner RB. The common cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 361.

## Read More

    * Acute respiratory distress syndrome
    * Avian influenza
    * Common cold
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Flu
    * H1N1 influenza (Swine flu)
    * Immune response
    * Stuffy or runny nose - children

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 10-28-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Common Cold
    * Flu

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

