Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001339.htm    
                                Description: Ebola is a severe and often deadly disease caused by a virus. Symptoms include fever, diarrhea, vomiting, bleeding, and often, death.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ebola virus disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001339.htm

# Ebola virus disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ebola is a severe and often deadly disease caused by a virus. Symptoms include
fever, diarrhea, vomiting, bleeding, and often, death.

Ebola can occur in humans and other primates (gorillas, monkeys, and
chimpanzees).

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa that began in March 2014 was the largest in
history. Almost 40% of the people who developed Ebola in this outbreak died.

The virus poses a very low risk to people in the United States.

For the most up-to-date information, please visit the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention's (CDC) website: www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola.

## Causes

WHERE EBOLA OCCURS

Ebola was discovered in 1976 near the Ebola River in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo. Since then, several small outbreaks have occurred in Africa. The
2014 outbreak was the largest. The countries most affected in this outbreak
included:

    * Guinea
    * Liberia
    * Sierra Leone 

Ebola has been previously reported in:

    * Nigeria
    * Senegal
    * Spain
    * United States
    * Mali
    * United Kingdom
    * Italy 

There are no current cases of Ebola in these countries. Most of these cases
were due to people traveling from a country where Ebola was spreading.

There were four people diagnosed with Ebola in the United States. Two were
imported cases, and two contracted the disease after caring for an Ebola
patient in the United States. One man died from the disease. The other three
recovered and do not have any symptoms of the disease.

HOW EBOLA CAN SPREAD

Ebola does not spread as easily as more common illnesses such as colds, the
flu, or measles. There is **NO** evidence that the virus that causes Ebola is
spread through the air or water. **A person who has Ebola CANNOT spread the
disease until symptoms appear.**

Ebola can ONLY spread between humans by **direct contact with infected body
fluids including but not limited to urine, saliva, sweat, feces, vomit, breast
milk, and semen.** The virus can enter the body through a break in the skin or
through mucous membranes, including the eyes, nose, and mouth.

Ebola can also spread by contact with ANY surfaces, objects, and materials
that have been in contact with body fluids from a sick person, such as:

    * Bedclothes and bedding
    * Clothing
    * Bandages
    * Needles and syringes
    * Medical equipment 

In Africa, Ebola may also be spread by:

    * Handling infected wild animals hunted for food (bushmeat)
    * Contact with blood or body fluids of infected animals
    * Contact with infected bats 

Ebola does NOT spread through:

    * Air
    * Water
    * Food
    * Insects (mosquitoes) 

Health care workers and people caring for sick relatives are at high risk for
developing Ebola because they are more likely to come in to direct contact
with body fluids. The proper use of personal protective equipment PPEÂ greatly
reduces this risk.

## Symptoms

The time between exposure and when symptoms occur (incubation period) is 2 to
21 days. On average, symptoms develop in 8 to 10 days.

Early symptoms of Ebola include:

    * Fever greater than 101.5Â°F (38.6Â°C)
    * Chills
    * Severe headache
    * Sore throat
    * Muscle pain
    * Weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Rash
    * Abdominal (stomach) pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Vomiting 

Late symptoms include:

    * Bleeding from the mouth and rectum
    * Bleeding from eyes, ears, and nose
    * Organ failure 

A person who does not have symptoms 21 days after being exposed to Ebola will
not develop the disease.

## Treatment

There is no known cure for Ebola. Experimental treatments have been used, but
none have been fully tested to see if they work well and are safe.

People with Ebola must be treated in a hospital. There, they can be isolated
so the disease cannot spread. Health care providers will treat the symptoms of
the disease.

Treatment for Ebola is supportive and includes:

    * Fluids given through a vein (IV)
    * Oxygen
    * Blood pressure management
    * Treatment for other infections
    * Blood transfusions 

Survival depends on how a person's immune system responds to the virus. A
person also may be more likely to survive if they receive good medical care.

People who survive Ebola are immune from the virus for 10 years or more. They
can no longer spread Ebola. It is not known whether they can be infected with
a different species of Ebola. However, men who survive can carry the Ebola
virus in their sperm for as long as 3 to 9 months. They should abstain from
sex or use condoms for 12 months or until their semen has twice tested
negative.

Long-term complications can include joint and vision problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have traveled to West Africa and:

    * Know you have been exposed to Ebola
    * You develop symptoms of the disorder, including fever 

Getting treatment right away may improve the chances of survival.

## Prevention

There is currently no vaccine to protect against Ebola, although a vaccine is
being tested.

If you plan to travel to one of the countries where Ebola is present, the CDC
recommends taking the following steps to prevent illness:

    * Practice careful hygiene. Wash your hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Avoid contact with blood and body fluids.
    * Avoid contact with people who have a fever, are vomiting, or appear ill.
    * Do not handle items that may have come in contact with an infected person's blood or body fluids. This includes clothes, bedding, needles, and medical equipment.
    * Avoid funeral or burial rituals that require handling the body of someone who has died from Ebola.
    * Avoid contact with bats and nonhuman primates or blood, fluids, and raw meat prepared from these animals.
    * Avoid hospitals in West Africa where Ebola patients are being treated. If you need medical care, the United States embassy or consulate is often able to provide advice about facilities.
    * After you return, pay attention to your health for 21 days. Seek medical care right away if you develop symptoms of Ebola, such as a fever. Tell the provider that you have been to a country where Ebola is present.

Health care workers who may be exposed to people with Ebola should follow
these steps:

    * Wear PPE, including protective clothing, including masks, gloves, gowns, and eye protection.
    * Practice proper infection control and sterilization measures.
    * Isolate patients with Ebola from other patients.
    * Avoid direct contact with the bodies of people who have died from Ebola.
    * Notify health officials if you have had direct contact with the blood or body fluids of a person who is sick with Ebola. 

## Alternative Names

Ebola hemorrhagic fever; Ebola virus infection; Viral hemorrhagic fever; Ebola

## Images

    * ![Ebola virus disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17160t.jpg)Ebola virus
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Ebola (Ebola Virus
Disease). www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola. Updated October 18, 2017. Accessed February
8, 2018.

Geisbert TW. Marburg and Ebola hemorrhagic fevers (Marburg and Ebola viral
diseases) (filoviruses). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 166.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ebola](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EbolaandHemorrhagicFevers_thumb.jpg)Ebola
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

