Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000080.htm    
                                Description: The flu is an infection of the nose, throat, and lungs. It spreads easily.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Flu

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000080.htm

# Flu

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The flu is an infection of the nose, throat, and lungs. It spreads easily.

This article discusses influenza types A and B. Another type of the flu is the
swine flu (H1N1).

## Causes

The flu is caused by an influenza virus.

Most people get the flu when they breathe in tiny airborne droplets from the
coughs or sneezes of someone who has the flu. You can also catch the flu if
you touch something with the virus on it, and then touch your mouth, nose, or
eyes.

People often confuse colds and flu. They are different, but you might have
some of the same symptoms. Most people get a cold several times a year. On the
contrary, people get the flu only once every few years.

Sometimes, you can get a virus that makes you throw up or have diarrhea. Some
people call this the "stomach flu." This is a misleading name because this
virus is not the actual flu. The flu mostly affects your nose, throat, and
lungs.

## Symptoms

Flu symptoms will often start quickly. You can start to feel sick about 1 to 7
days after you come in contact with the virus. Most of the time symptoms
appear within 2 to 3 days.

The flu spreads easily. It can affect a large group of people in a very short
amount of time. For example, students and co-workers get sick within 2 or 3
weeks of the flu's arrival in a school or workplace.

The first symptom is a fever between 102Â°F (39Â°C) and 106Â°F (41Â°C). An
adult often has a lower fever than a child.

Other common symptoms include:

    * Body aches
    * Chills
    * Dizziness
    * Flushed face
    * Headache
    * Lack of energy
    * Nausea and vomiting 

The fever, aches, and pains begin to go away on days 2 through 4. But new
symptoms occur, including:

    * Dry cough
    * Increased symptoms that affect breathing
    * Runny nose (clear and watery)
    * Sneezing
    * Sore throat 

Most symptoms go away in 4 to 7 days. The cough and tired feeling may last for
weeks. Sometimes, the fever comes back.

Some people may not feel like eating.

The flu can make asthma, breathing problems, and other long-term (chronic)
illnesses and conditions worse.

## Exams and Tests

Most people do not need to see a health care provider when they have flu
symptoms. This is because most people are not at risk for a severe case of the
flu.

If you are very sick with the flu, you may want to see your provider. People
who are at high risk for flu complications may also want to see a provider if
they get the flu.

When many people in an area have flu, a provider can make a diagnosis after
hearing about your symptoms. No further testing is needed.

There is a test to detect the flu. It is done by swabbing the nose or throat.
Most of the time, test results are available very fast. The test can help your
provider prescribe the best treatment.

## Treatment

HOME CARE

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help lower fever.
Providers sometimes suggest that you use both types of medicine. DO NOT use
aspirin.

A fever does not need to come all the way down to normal. Most people feel
better when the temperature drops by 1 degree.

Over-the-counter cold medicines may make some of your symptoms better. Cough
drops or throat sprays will help with your sore throat.

You will need a lot of rest. Drink plenty of liquids. DO NOT smoke or drink
alcohol.

ANTIVIRAL DRUGS

Most people with milder symptoms feel better in 3 to 4 days. They do not need
to see a provider or take antiviral medicines.

Providers may give antiviral drugs to people who get very sick with the flu.
You may need these medicines if you are more likely to have flu complications
The health problems below may increase your risk of getting sicker with the
flu:

    * Lung disease (including asthma)
    * Heart conditions (except high blood pressure)
    * Kidney, liver, nerve, and muscle conditions
    * Blood disorders (including sickle cell disease)
    * Diabetes
    * A weakened immune system due to diseases (such as AIDS), radiation therapy, or certain medicines, including chemotherapy and corticosteroids
    * Other long-term medical problem 

These medicines may shorten the time you have symptoms by about 1 day. They
work better if you start taking them within 2 days of your first symptoms.

Children at risk for a severe case of the flu may also need these medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Millions of people in the United States get the flu each year. Most people get
better within a week or two, but thousands of people with the flu develop
pneumonia or a brain infection. They need to stay in the hospital. About
36,000 people in the United States die each year of problems from the flu.

Anyone at any age can have serious complications from the flu. Those at
highest risk include:

    * People over the age of 65
    * Children younger than 2 years old
    * Women who are more than 3 months pregnant
    * Anyone living in a long-term care facility
    * Anyone with chronic heart, lung, or kidney conditions, diabetes, or a weakened immune system 

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Pneumonia
    * Encephalitis (infection of the brain)
    * Meningitis
    * Seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you get the flu and think you are at risk for having
complications.

Also, call your provider if your flu symptoms are very bad and self-treatment
is not working.

## Prevention

You can take steps to avoid catching or spreading the flu. The best step is to
get a flu vaccine.

![Nasal spray flu
vaccine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19664.jpg)

If you have the flu:

    * Stay in your apartment, dorm room, or home for at least 24 hours after your fever has gone.
    * Wear a mask if you leave your room.
    * Avoid sharing food, utensils, cups, or bottles.
    * Use hand sanitizer often during the day and always after touching your face.
    * Cover your mouth with a tissue when coughing and throw it away after use.
    * Cough into your sleeve if a tissue is not available. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth. 

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone
6 months and older should receive the influenza vaccine. Children 6 months
through 8 years of age may need 2 doses during a single flu season. Everyone
else needs only 1 dose each flu season. For the 2019-2020 season, the CDC
recommends use of the flu shot (inactivated influenza vaccine or IIV) and the
recombinant influenza vaccine (RIV). The nasal spray flu vaccine (live
attenuated influenza vaccine, or LAIV) may be given to healthy, non-pregnant
people 2 through 49 years of age.

## Alternative Names

Influenza A; Influenza B; Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) - flu; Zanamivir (Relenza) -
flu; Vaccine - flu

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge

## Images

    * ![Normal lung anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17235t.jpg)Normal lung anatomy
    * ![Influenza](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17237t.jpg)Influenza
    * ![Nasal spray flu vaccine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19664t.jpg)Nasal spray flu vaccine

## References

Aoki FY. Antiviral drugs for influenza and other respiratory virus infections.
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 45.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Inactivated influenza VIS.
www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-statements/flu.html. Updated August 15, 2019.
Accessed September 19, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Live, intranasal influenza
VIS. www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-statements/flulive.html. Updated August
15, 2019. Accessed September 19, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. What you should know about
flu antiviral drugs. www.cdc.gov/flu/antivirals/whatyoushould.htm. Updated
April 22, 2019. Accessed September 19, 2019.

Havers FP, Campbell AJP. Influenza viruses. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 285.

Ison MG, Hayden FG. Influenza. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 340.

Treanor JJ. Influenza viruses, including avian influenza and swine influenza.
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 165.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 01/17/2020 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Flu_thumb.jpg)Flu _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

