Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001386.htm    
                                Description: Leishmaniasis is an infectious disease spread by the bite of the female sandfly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leishmaniasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001386.htm

# Leishmaniasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leishmaniasis is an infectious disease spread by the bite of the female
sandfly.

## Causes

Leishmaniasis is caused by a tiny parasite called leishmania protozoa.
Protozoa are one-celled organisms.

The different forms of leishmaniasis are:

    * Cutaneous leishmaniasis affects the skin and mucous membranes. Skin sores usually start at the site of the sandfly bite. In a few people, sores may develop on mucous membranes.
    * Systemic, or visceral, leishmaniasis affects the entire body. This form occurs 2 to 8 months after a person is bitten by the sandfly. Most people do not remember having a skin sore. This form can lead to deadly complications. The parasites damage the immune system by decreasing the numbers of disease-fighting cells. 

Cases of leishmaniasis have been reported on all continents except Australia
and Antarctica. In the Americas, the disease can be found in Mexico and South
America. It has also been reported in military personnel returning from the
Persian Gulf.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cutaneous leishmaniasis depend on where the lesions are located
and may include:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Skin sores, which may become a skin ulcer that heals very slowly
    * Stuffy nose, runny nose, and nosebleeds
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Ulcers and wearing away (erosion) in the mouth, tongue, gums, lips, nose, and inner nose

Systemic visceral infection in children usually begins suddenly with:

    * Cough
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Vomiting

Adults usually have a fever for 2 weeks to 2 months, along with symptoms such
as fatigue, weakness, and appetite loss. Weakness increases as the disease
gets worse.

Other symptoms of systemic visceral leishmaniasis may include:

    * Abdominal discomfort
    * Fever that lasts for weeks; may come and go in cycles
    * Night sweats
    * Scaly, gray, dark, ashen skin
    * Thinning hair
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and may find that your spleen,
liver, and lymph nodes are enlarged. You will be asked if you recall being
bitten by sandflies or if you've been in an area where leishmaniasis is
common.

Tests that may be done to diagnose the condition include:

    * Biopsy of the spleen and culture
    * Bone marrow biopsy and culture
    * Direct agglutination assay
    * Indirect immunofluorescent antibody test
    * Leishmania-specific PCR test
    * Liver biopsy and culture
    * Lymph node biopsy and culture
    * Montenegro skin test (not approved in the United States)
    * Skin biopsy and culture 

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * Serologic testing
    * Serum albumin
    * Serum immunoglobulin levels
    * Serum protein

## Treatment

Antimony-containing compounds are the main medicines used to treat
leishmaniasis. These include:

    * Meglumine antimoniate
    * Sodium stibogluconate 

Other medicines that may be used include:

    * Amphotericin B
    * Ketoconazole
    * Miltefosine
    * Paromomycin
    * Pentamidine 

Plastic surgery may be needed to correct the disfigurement caused by sores on
the face (cutaneous leishmaniasis).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cure rates are high with the proper medicine, mostly when treatment is started
before it affects the immune system. Cutaneous leishmaniasis may lead to
disfigurement.

Death is usually caused by complications (such as other infections), rather
than from the disease itself. Death often occurs within 2 years.

## Possible Complications

Leishmaniasis may lead to the following:

    * Bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Deadly infections due to immune system damage
    * Disfigurement of the face

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have symptoms of leishmaniasis after visiting an
area where the disease is known to occur.

## Prevention

Taking measures to avoid sandfly bites can help prevent leishmaniasis:

    * Putting fine mesh netting around the bed (in areas where the disease occurs)
    * Screening windows
    * Wearing insect repellent
    * Wearing protective clothing 

Public health measures to reduce sandflies are important. There are no
vaccines or medicines that prevent leishmaniasis.

## Alternative Names

Kala-azar; Cutaneous leishmaniasis; Visceral leishmaniasis; Old world
leishmaniasis; New world leishmaniasis

## Images

    * ![Leishmaniasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17241t.jpg)Leishmaniasis
    * ![Leishmaniasis, mexicana - lesion on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2053t.jpg)Leishmaniasis, mexicana - lesion on the cheek
    * ![Leishmaniasis on the finger](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2652t.jpg)Leishmaniasis on the finger
    * ![Leishmania panamensis on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2654t.jpg)Leishmania panamensis on the foot
    * ![Leishmania panamensis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2656t.jpg)Leishmania panamensis - close-up

## References

Aronson NE, Copeland NK, Magill AJ. Leishmania species: visceral (kala-azar),
cutaneous, and mucosal leishmaniasis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2020:chap 275.

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Blood and tissue protistans I:
hemoflagellates. In: Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human
Parasitology_. 5th ed. London, UK: Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 6.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Leishmaniasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Leishmaniasis_thumb.jpg)Leishmaniasis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

