Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001375.htm    
                                Description: Fish tapeworm infection is an intestinal infection with a parasite found in fish.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fish tapeworm infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001375.htm

# Fish tapeworm infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fish tapeworm infection is an intestinal infection with a parasite found in
fish.

## Causes

The fish tapeworm ( _Diphyllobothrium latum_ ) is the largest parasite that
infects humans. Humans become infected when they eat raw or undercooked
freshwater fish that contain fish tapeworm cysts.

The infection is seen in many areas where humans eat uncooked or undercooked
freshwater fish from rivers or lakes, including:

    * Africa 
    * Eastern Europe 
    * North and South America 
    * Scandinavia 
    * Some Asian countries 

After a person has eaten infected fish, the larva begins to grow in the
intestine. Larvae are fully grown in 3 to 6 weeks. The adult worm, which is
segmented, attaches to the wall of the intestine. The tapeworm may reach a
length of 30 feet (9 meters). Eggs are formed in each segment of the worm and
are passed in the stool. Sometimes, parts of the worm may also be passed in
the stool.

The tapeworm absorbs the nutrition from food that the infected person eats.
This may lead to vitamin B12 deficiency and anemia.

## Symptoms

Most people who are infected have no symptoms. If symptoms do occur, they may
include:

    * Abdominal discomfort or pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Weakness
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

People who are infected sometimes pass segments of worm in their stools. These
segments can be seen in the stool.

Tests may include:

    * Complete blood count, including differential
    * Blood tests to determine the cause of anemia
    * Vitamin B12 level
    * Stool exam for eggs and parasites 

## Treatment

You will receive medicines to fight the parasites. You take these medicines by
mouth, usually in a single dose.

The drug of choice for tapeworm infections is praziquantel. Niclosamide can
also be used. If needed, your health care provider will prescribe vitamin B12
injections or supplements to treat vitamin B12 deficiency and anemia.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Fish tapeworms can be removed with a single treatment dose. There are no
lasting effects.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, fish tapeworm infection may cause the following:

    * Megaloblastic anemia (anemia caused by vitamin B12 deficiency)
    * Intestinal blockage (rare)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have noticed a worm or segments of a worm in your stool
    * Any family members have symptoms of anemia

## Prevention

Measures you can take to prevent tapeworm infection include:

    * Do not eat raw or undercooked fish.
    * Cook fish at 145Â°F (63Â°C) for at least 4 minutes. Use a food thermometer to measure the thickest part of the fish.
    * Freeze fish at -4Â°F (-20Â°C) or below for 7 days, or at -35Â°F (-31Â°C) or below for 15 hours.

## Alternative Names

Diphyllobothriasis

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Alroy KA, Gilman RH. Tapeworm infections. In: Ryan ET, Hill DR, Solomon T,
Aronson NE, Endy TP, eds. _Hunter's Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 130.

Fairley JK, King CH. Tapeworms (cestodes). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 289.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

