Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000628.htm    
                                Description: Ascariasis is an infection with the parasitic roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ascariasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000628.htm

# Ascariasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ascariasis is an infection with the parasitic roundworm _Ascaris
lumbricoides_.

## Causes

People get ascariasis by consuming food or drink that is contaminated with
roundworm eggs. Ascariasis is the most common intestinal worm infection. It is
related to poor personal hygiene and poor sanitation. People who live in
places where human feces (stool) are used as fertilizer are also at risk for
this disease.

Once consumed, the eggs hatch and release immature roundworms called larvae
inside the small intestine. Within a few days, the larvae move through the
bloodstream to the lungs. They travel up through the large airways of the
lungs, and are swallowed back into the stomach and small intestine.

As the larvae move through the lungs they may cause an uncommon form of
pneumonia called eosinophilic pneumonia. Eosinophils are a type of white blood
cell. Once the larvae are back in the small intestine, they mature into adult
roundworms. Adult worms live in the small intestine, where they lay eggs that
are present in feces. They can live 10 to 24 months.

An estimated 1 billion people are infected worldwide. Ascariasis occurs in
people of all ages, though children are affected more severely than adults.

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no symptoms. If there are symptoms, they may
include:

    * Bloody sputumÂ (mucus coughed up by the lower airways)
    * Cough, wheezing
    * Low-grade fever
    * Passing worms in stool
    * Shortness of breath
    * Skin rash
    * Stomach pain
    * Vomiting or coughing up worms
    * Worms leaving the body through the nose or mouth 

## Exams and Tests

The infected person may show signs of malnutrition. Tests to diagnose this
condition include:

    * Abdominal x-ray or other imaging tests
    * Blood tests, including complete blood count and eosinophil count
    * Stool exam to look for worms and worm eggs 

## Treatment

Treatment includes medicines such as albendazole that paralyze or kill
intestinal parasitic worms.

If there is a blockage of the intestine caused by a large number of worms, a
procedure called endoscopy may be used to remove the worms. In rare cases,
surgery is needed.

People who are treated for roundworms should be checked again in 3 months.
This involves examining the stools to check for eggs of the worm. If eggs are
present, treatment should be given again.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover from symptoms of the infection, even without treatment.
But they may continue to carry the worms in their body.

Complications can be caused by adult worms that move to certain organs, such
as the:

    * Appendix
    * Bile duct
    * Pancreas 

If the worms multiply, they can block the intestine.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Blockage in the bile ducts of the liver
    * Blockage in the intestine
    * Hole in the gut 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of ascariasis,
particularly if you have traveled to an area where the disease is common. Also
call if you have any of the following:

    * Symptoms get worse
    * Symptoms do not improve with treatment
    * New symptoms occur

## Prevention

Improved sanitation and hygiene in developing countries will reduce the risk
in those areas. In places where ascariasis is common, people may be given
deworming medicines as a preventive measure.

## Alternative Names

Intestinal parasite - ascariasis; Roundworm - ascariasis

## Images

    * ![Roundworm eggs - ascariasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1005t.jpg)Roundworm eggs - ascariasis
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Intestinal nematodes. In: Bogitsh BJ,
Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed. Waltham, MA:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 16.

Maguire JH. Intestinal nematodes (roundworms). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 288.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

