Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001364.htm    
                                Description: Whipworm infection is an infection of the large intestine with a type of roundworm.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Whipworm infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001364.htm

# Whipworm infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whipworm infection is an infection of the large intestine with a type of
roundworm.

## Causes

Whipworm infection is caused by the roundworm _Trichuris trichiura_. It is a
common infection that mainly affects children.

Children may become infected if they swallow soil contaminated with whipworm
eggs. When the eggs hatch inside the body, the whipworm sticks inside the wall
of the large intestine.

Whipworm is found throughout the world, especially in countries with warm,
humid climates. Some outbreaks have been traced to contaminated vegetables
(believed to be due to soil contamination).

## Symptoms

Most people who have whipworm infections don't have symptoms. Symptoms mainly
occur in children, and range from mild to severe. A severe infection may
cause:

    * Bloody diarrhea
    * Iron-deficiency anemia
    * Fecal incontinence (during sleep)
    * Rectal prolapse (the rectum comes out of the anus)

## Exams and Tests

A stool ova and parasites exam reveals the presence of whipworm eggs.

## Treatment

The drug albendazole is commonly prescribed when the infection causes
symptoms. A different anti-worm medicine may also be prescribed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery is expected with treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical attention if you or your child develop bloody diarrhea. In
addition to whipworm, many other infections and illnesses can cause similar
symptoms.

## Prevention

Improved facilities for feces disposal have decreased the incidence of
whipworm.

Always wash your hands before handling food. Teach your children to wash their
hands, too. Thoroughly washing food may also help prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Intestinal parasite - whipworm; Trichuriasis; Round worm - trichuriasis

## Images

    * ![Trichuris trichiura egg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1007t.jpg)Trichuris trichiura egg

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Intestinal nematodes. In: Bogitsh BJ,
Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed. San Diego, CA:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 16.

Dent AE, Kazura JW. Trichuriasis ( _Trichuris trichiura_ ). In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 293.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

