Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000627.htm    
                                Description: Cysticercosis is an infection by a parasite called Taenia solium (T solium). It is a pork tapeworm that creates cysts in different areas in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cysticercosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000627.htm

# Cysticercosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cysticercosis is an infection by a parasite called _Taenia solium_ ( _T
solium_ ). It is a pork tapeworm that creates cysts in different areas in the
body.

## Causes

Cysticercosis is caused by swallowing eggs from _T solium_. The eggs are found
in contaminated food. Autoinfection is when a person who is already infected
with adult _T solium_ swallows its eggs. This occurs due to improper hand
washing after a bowel movement.

Risk factors include eating pork, fruits, and vegetables contaminated with _T
solium_ as a result of undercooking or improper food preparation. The disease
can also be spread by contact with infected feces.

The disease is rare in the United States. It is common in many developing
countries.

## Symptoms

Most often, the worms stay in muscles and do not cause symptoms.

Symptoms that do occur depend on where the infection is found in the body:

    * Brain -- seizures or symptoms similar to those of a brain tumor
    * Eyes -- decreased vision or blindness
    * Heart -- abnormal heart rhythms or heart failure (rare)
    * Spine -- weakness or changes in walking due to damage to nerves in the spine

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests to detect antibodies to the parasite
    * Biopsy of the affected area
    * CT scan, MRI scan, or x-rays to detect the lesion
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture)
    * Test in which an ophthalmologist looks inside the fundus of the eye

## Treatment

Treatment may involve:

    * Medicines to kill the parasites, such as albendazole or praziquantel
    * Powerful anti-inflammatories (steroids) to reduce swelling 

If the cyst is in the eye or brain, steroids should be started a few days
before other medicines to avoid problems caused by swelling during
antiparasitic treatment. Not all people benefit from antiparasitic treatment.

Sometimes, surgery may be needed to remove the infected area.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good, unless the lesion has caused blindness, heart failure, or
brain damage. These are rare complications.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blindness, decreased vision
    * Heart failure or abnormal heart rhythm
    * Hydrocephalus (fluid buildup in part of the brain, often with increased pressure)
    * Seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have any symptoms of cysticercosis, contact your health care provider.

## Prevention

Avoid unwashed foods, do not eat uncooked foods while traveling, and always
wash fruits and vegetables well.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

White AC, Brunetti E. Cestodes. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 354.

White AC, Fischer PR. Cysticercosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 303.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

