Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001391.htm    
                                Description: Beef or pork tapeworm infection is an infection with the tapeworm parasite found in beef or pork.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tapeworm infection - beef or pork

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001391.htm

# Tapeworm infection - beef or pork

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Beef or pork tapeworm infection is an infection with the tapeworm parasite
found in beef or pork.

## Causes

Tapeworm infection is caused by eating the raw or undercooked meat of infected
animals. Cattle usually carry _Taenia saginata_ ( _T saginata_ ). Pigs carry
_Taenia solium (T solium)_.

In the human intestine, the young form of the tapeworm from the infected meat
(larva) develops into the adult tapeworm. A tapeworm can grow to longer than
12 feet (3.5 meters) and can live for years.

Tapeworms have many segments. Each segment is able to produce eggs. The eggs
are spread alone or in groups, and can pass out with the stool or through the
anus.

Adults and children with pork tapeworm can infect themselves if they have poor
hygiene. They can ingest tapeworm eggs they pick up on their hands while
wiping or scratching their anus or the skin around it.

Those who are infected can expose other people to _T solium_ eggs, usually
through food handling.

## Symptoms

Tapeworm infection usually does not cause any symptoms. Some people may have
abdominal discomfort.

People often realize they are infected when they pass segments of the worm in
their stool, especially if the segments are moving.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done to confirm diagnosis of an infection include:

    * CBC, including differential count
    * Stool exam for eggs of _T solium_ or _T saginata_ , or bodies of the parasite

## Treatment

Tapeworms are treated with medicines taken by mouth, usually in a single dose.
The drug of choice for tapeworm infections is praziquantel. Niclosamide can
also be used, but this medicine is not available in the United States.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the tapeworm infection goes away.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, worms can cause a blockage in the intestine.

If pork tapeworm larvae move out of the intestine, they can cause local
growths and damage tissues such as the brain, eye, or heart. This condition is
called cysticercosis. Infection of the brain (neurocysticercosis) can cause
seizures and other nervous system problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you pass something
in your stool that looks like a white worm.

## Prevention

In the United States, laws on feeding practices and the inspection of domestic
food animals have largely eliminated tapeworms.

Measures you can take to prevent tapeworm infection include:

    * Do not eat raw meat.
    * Cook whole cut meat to 145Â°F (63Â°C) and ground meat to 160Â°F (71Â°C). Use a food thermometer to measure the thickest part of the meat.
    * Freezing meat is not a reliable because it may not kill all eggs.
    * Wash hands well after using the toilet, especially after a bowel movement.

## Alternative Names

Teniasis; Pork tapeworm; Beef tapeworm; Tapeworm; Taenia saginata; Taenia
solium; Taeniasis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Intestinal tapeworms. In: Bogitsh BJ,
Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed. London, UK:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 13.

Fairley JK, King CH. Tapeworms (cestodes). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 289.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

