Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000629.htm    
                                Description: Hookworm infection is caused by roundworms. The disease affects the small intestine and lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hookworm infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000629.htm

# Hookworm infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hookworm infection is caused by roundworms. The disease affects the small
intestine and lungs.

## Causes

The infection is caused by infestation with any of the following roundworms:

    *  _Necator americanus_
    *  _Ancylostoma duodenale_
    *  _Ancylostoma ceylanicum_
    *  _Ancylostoma braziliense_

The first two roundworms affect humans only. The last two types also occur in
animals.

Hookworm disease is common in the moist tropics and subtropics. In developing
nations, the disease leads to the death of many children by increasing their
risk for infections that their bodies would normally fight off.

There is very little risk of getting the disease in the United States because
of advances in sanitation and waste control. The important factor in getting
the disease is walking barefoot on ground where there are feces of people who
are infected with hookworm.

The larvae (immature form of the worm) enter the skin. The larvae move to the
lungs via the bloodstream and enter the airways. The worms are about one half
inch (1 centimeter) long.

After traveling up the windpipe, the larvae are swallowed. After the larvae
are swallowed, they infect the small intestine. They develop into adult worms
and live there for 1 or more years. The worms attach to the intestinal wall
and suck blood, which can result in iron deficiency anemia and protein loss.
Adult worms and larvae are released in the feces.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal discomfort
    * Cough
    * Diarrhea
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Gas
    * Itchy rash
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Pale skin

Most people have no symptoms once the worms enter the intestines.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that can help diagnose the infection include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) with differential
    * Stool ova and parasites exam

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

    * Cure the infection
    * Treat complications of anemia
    * Improve nutrition

Parasite-killing drugs such as albendazole, mebendazole, or pyrantel pamoate
are often prescribed.

Symptoms and complications of anemia are treated, if needed. The health care
provider will likely recommend increasing the amount of protein in your diet.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You will have a complete recovery if you get treated before serious
complications develop. Treatment gets rid of the infection.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from hookworm infection include:

    * Iron deficiency anemia, caused by loss of blood
    * Nutritional deficiencies
    * Severe protein loss with fluid buildup in the abdomen (ascites)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if symptoms of hookworm infection
develop.

## Prevention

Handwashing and wearing shoes will reduce the likelihood of infection.

## Alternative Names

Hookworm disease; Ground itch; Ancylostoma duodenale infection; Necator
americanus infection; Parasitic infection - hookworm

## Images

    * ![Hookworm - mouth of the organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1001t.jpg)Hookworm - mouth of the organism
    * ![Hookworm - close-up of the organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1002t.jpg)Hookworm - close-up of the organism
    * ![Hookworm - Ancylostoma caninum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1003t.jpg)Hookworm - Ancylostoma caninum
    * ![Hookworm egg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2621t.jpg)Hookworm egg
    * ![Hookworm rhabditiform larva](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2622t.jpg)Hookworm rhabditiform larva
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Diemert DJ. Nematode infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 335.

Hotez PJ. Hookworms ( _Necator americanus_ and _Angylostoma_ spp.). In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 318.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

