Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000630.htm    
                                Description: Strongyloidiasis is an infection with the roundworm Strongyloides stercoralis (SÂ stercoralis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Strongyloidiasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000630.htm

# Strongyloidiasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Strongyloidiasis is an infection with the roundworm _Strongyloides stercoralis
(SÂ stercoralis)._

## Causes

_SÂ stercoralis_ is a roundworm that is fairly common in warm, moist areas. In
rare cases, it can be found as far north as Canada.

People catch the infection when their skin comes in contact with soil that is
contaminated with the worms.

The tiny worm is barely visible to the naked eye. Young roundworms can move
through a person's skin and eventually into the bloodstream to the lungs and
airways.

They then move up to the throat, where they are swallowed into the stomach.
From the stomach, the worms move to the small intestine, where they attach to
the intestinal wall. Later, they produce eggs, which hatch into tiny larvae
(immature worms) and pass out of the body.

Unlike other worms, these larvae can re-enter the body through the skin around
the anus, which allows an infection to grow. Areas where the worms go through
the skin can become red and painful.

This infection is uncommon in the United States, but it does occur in the
southeastern US. Most cases in North America are brought by travelers who have
visited or lived in South America or Africa.

Some people are at risk for a severe type called strongyloidiasis
hyperinfection syndrome. In this form of the condition, there are more worms
and they multiply more quickly than normal. It can occur in people who have a
weakened immune system. This includes people who have had an organ or blood-
product transplant, and those who take steroid medicine or immune-suppressing
drugs.

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no symptoms. If there are symptoms, they may
include:

    * Abdominal pain (upper abdomen)
    * Cough
    * Diarrhea
    * Rash
    * Red hive-like areas near the anus
    * Vomiting
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood tests such as complete blood count with differential, eosinophil count (a type of white blood cell), antigen test for _S stercoralis_
    * Duodenal aspiration (removing a small amount of tissue from the first part of the small intestine) to check for _SÂ stercoralis_ (uncommon)
    * Sputum culture to check for _SÂ stercoralis_
    * Stool sample exam to check for _SÂ stercoralis_

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to eliminate the worms with anti-worm medicines, such
as ivermectin or albendazole.

Sometimes, people with no symptoms are treated. This includes people who take
drugs that suppress the immune system, such as those who are going to have, or
have had, a transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With proper treatment, the worms can be killed and full recovery is expected.
Sometimes, treatment needs to be repeated.

Infections that are severe (hyperinfection) or that have spread to many areas
of the body (disseminated infection) often have a poor outcome, especially in
people with a weakened immune systems.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications include:

    * Disseminated strongyloidiasis, particularly in people with HIV or an otherwise weakened immune system
    * Strongyloidiasis hyperinfection syndrome, also more common in people with a weakened immune system
    * Eosinophilic pneumonia
    * Malnutrition due to problems absorbing nutrients from the gastrointestinal tract 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you have symptoms of
strongyloidiasis.

## Prevention

Good personal hygiene can reduce the risk of strongyloidiasis. Public health
services and sanitary facilities provide good infection control.

## Alternative Names

Intestinal parasite - strongyloidiasis; Roundworm - strongyloidiasis

## Images

    * ![Strongyloidiasis, creeping eruption on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2626t.jpg)Strongyloidiasis, creeping eruption on the back
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Intestinal nematodes. In: Bogitsh BJ,
Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed. London, UK:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 16.

Maguire JH. Intestinal nematodes (roundworms). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 288.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

