Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003732.htm    
                                Description: Small bowel tissue smear is a lab test that checks for disease in a sample of tissue from the small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Small bowel tissue smear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003732.htm

# Small bowel tissue smear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Small bowel tissue smear is a lab test that checks for disease in a sample of
tissue from the small intestine.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of tissue from the small intestine is removed during a procedure
called esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). A brushing of the intestine lining
can also be taken.

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There it is sliced, stained, and placed on
a microscope slide to be examined.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will need to have an EGD procedure for the sample to be taken. Prepare for
this procedure in the way your health care provider recommends.

## How the Test will Feel

You are not involved in the test once the sample is taken.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test to look for an infection or other disease of
the small intestine. In most cases, this test is done only when a diagnosis
could not be made using stool and blood tests.

## Normal Results

A normal result means that there were no indicators of disease when the sample
was examined under the microscope.

The small intestine normally contains certain healthy bacteria and yeast.
Their presence is not a sign of disease.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that certain microorganisms, such as the parasites
giardia or strongyloides were seen in the tissue sample. It may also mean that
there were changes in the structure (anatomy) of the tissue.

The biopsy may also reveal evidence of celiac disease, Whipple disease or
Crohn disease.

## Risks

There are no risks associated with a laboratory culture.

## Images

    * ![Small intestine tissue sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9927t.jpg)Small intestine tissue sample

## References

Dupont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Fritsche TR, Pritt BS. Medical parasitology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 63.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

