Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000631.htm    
                                Description: Trichinosis is an infection with the roundworm Trichinella spiralis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trichinosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000631.htm

# Trichinosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trichinosis is an infection with the roundworm _Trichinella spiralis_.

## Causes

Trichinosis is a parasitic disease caused by eating meat that has not been
thoroughly cooked and contains cysts (larvae, or immature worms) of
_Trichinella spiralis_. This parasite can be found in pork, bear, walrus, fox,
rat, horse, and lion.

Wild animals, especially carnivores (meat eaters) or omnivores (animals that
eat both meat and plants), should be considered possible sources of roundworm
disease. Domestic meat animals raised specifically for eating under US
Department of Agriculture (government) guidelines and inspection can be
considered safe. For this reason, trichinosisÂ is rare in the United States,
but it is a common infection worldwide.

When a person eats meat from an infected animal, trichinella cysts break open
in the intestine and grow into adult roundworms. The roundworms produce other
worms that move through the gut wall and into the bloodstream. The worms
invade muscle tissues, including the heart and diaphragm (the breathing muscle
under the lungs). They can also infect the lungs and brain. The cysts remain
alive for years.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of trichinosis include:

    * Abdominal discomfort, cramping
    * Diarrhea
    * Facial swelling around the eyes
    * Fever 
    * Muscle pain (especially muscle pain with breathing, chewing, or using large muscles)
    * Muscle weakness 

## Exams and Tests

Tests to diagnose this condition include:

    * Blood tests such as complete blood count (CBC), eosinophil count (a type of white blood cell), antibody test, and creatine kinase levelÂ (an enzyme found in muscle cells) 
    * Muscle biopsy to check for worms in the muscle

## Treatment

Medicines, such as albendazole, can be used to treat infections in the
intestines. A mild infection does not usually need treatment. Pain medicine
can help relieve muscle soreness after the larvae have invaded the muscles.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with trichinosis have no symptoms and the infection goes away by
itself. More severe infections may be difficult to treat, especially if the
lungs, heart, or brain is involved.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications include:

    * Encephalitis (brain infection and inflammation)
    * Heart failure
    * Heart rhythm problems from heart inflammation
    * Pneumonia 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of trichinosis and you
recently ate undercooked or raw meat that might have been contaminated.

## Prevention

Pork and meat from wild animals should be cooked until well done (no traces of
pink). Freezing pork at a low temperature (5Â°F or -15Â°C or colder) for 3 to
4 weeks will kill the worms. Freezing wild game meat does not always kill the
worms. Smoking, salting, and drying meat are also not reliable methods of
killing the worms.

## Alternative Names

Parasite infection - trichinosis; Trichiniasis; Trichinellosis; Roundworm -
trichinosis

## Images

    * ![Trichinella spiralis in human muscle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2638t.jpg)Trichinella spiralis in human muscle
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Intestinal nematodes. In: Bogitsh BJ,
Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed. London, UK:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 16.

Kazura JW. Tissue nematodes (trichinellosis, dracunculiasis, filariasis,
loiasis, and onchocerciasis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 289.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

