Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000676.htm    
                                Description: Echinococcosis is an infection caused by either the Echinococcus granulosus or Echinococcus multilocularis tapeworm. The infection is also called hydatid disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Echinococcosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000676.htm

# Echinococcosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Echinococcosis is an infection caused by either the _Echinococcus granulosus_
or _Echinococcus multilocularis_ tapeworm. The infection is also called
hydatid disease.

## Causes

Humans become infected when they swallow the tapeworm eggs in contaminated
food. The eggs then form cysts inside the body. A cyst is a closed pocket or
pouch. The cysts keep growing, which leads to symptoms.

 _E granulosus_ is an infection caused by tapeworms found in dogs, and
livestock such as sheep, pigs, goats, and cattle. These tapeworms are around 2
to 7 mm long. The infection is called cystic echinococcosis (CE). It leads to
growth of cysts mainly in the lungs and liver. Cysts can also be found in the
heart, bones, and brain.

 _E multilocularis_ is the infection caused by tapeworms found in dogs, cats,
rodents, and foxes. These tapeworms are around 1 to 4 mm long. The infection
is called alveolar echinococcosis (AE). It is a life-threatening condition
because tumor-like growths form in the liver. Other organs, such as the lungs
and brain can be affected.

Children or young adults are more prone to get the infection.

Echinococcosis is common in:

    * Africa
    * Central Asia
    * Southern South America
    * The Mediterranean
    * The Middle East

In rare cases, the infection is seen in the United States. It has been
reported in California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah.

Risk factors include being exposed to:

    * Cattle
    * Deer
    * Feces of dogs, foxes, wolves, or coyotes
    * Pigs
    * Sheep
    * Camels

## Symptoms

Cysts may produce no symptoms for 10 years or more.

As the disease advances and the cysts get larger, symptoms may include:

    * Pain in the upper right part of the abdomen (liver cyst)
    * Increase in size of the abdomen due to swelling (liver cyst)
    * Bloody sputumÂ (lung cyst)
    * Chest painÂ (lung cyst)
    * CoughÂ (lung cyst)
    * Severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) when cysts break open

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

If the provider suspects CE or AE, tests that may be done to find the cysts
include:

    * X-ray, echocardiogram, CT scan, PET scan, or ultrasound to view the cysts
    * Blood tests, such as enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA), liver function tests
    * Fine needle aspiration biopsy

Most often, echinococcosis cysts are found when an imaging test is done for
another reason.

## Treatment

Many people can be treated with anti-worm medicines.

A procedure that involves inserting a needle through the skin into the cyst
may be tried. The contents of the cyst is removed (aspirated) through the
needle. Then medicine is sent through the needle to kill the tapeworm. This
treatment is not for cysts in the lungs.

Surgery is the treatment of choice for cysts that are large, infected, or
located in organs, such as the heart and brain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cysts respond to oral medicines, the likely outcome is good.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Measures to prevent CE and AE include:

    * Staying away from wild animals including foxes, wolves, and coyotes
    * Avoiding contact with stray dogs
    * Washing hands well after touching pet dogs or cats, and before handling food

## Alternative Names

Hydatidosis; Hydatid disease, Hydatid cyst disease; Alveolar cyst disease;
Polycystic echinococcosis

## Images

    * ![Liver echinococcus - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1177t.jpg)Liver echinococcus - CT scan
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. General characteristics of the cestoidea.
In: Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed.
London, UK: Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 12.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention web site. Parasites -
echinococcosis. www.cdc.gov/parasites/echinococcosis/treatment.html. Updated
December 12, 2012. Accessed October 22, 2018.

Gottstein B, Beldi G. Echinococcosis. In: Cohen J, Powderly WG, Opal SM, eds.
_Infectious Diseases_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 120.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

