Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001321.htm    
                                Description: Schistosomiasis is an infection with a type of blood fluke parasite called schistosomes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Schistosomiasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001321.htm

# Schistosomiasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Schistosomiasis is an infection with a type of blood fluke parasite called
schistosomes.

## Causes

You can get a schistosoma infection through contact with contaminated water.
This parasite swims freely in open bodies of fresh water.

When the parasite comes into contact with humans, it burrows into the skin and
matures into another stage. Then, it travels to the lungs and liver, where it
grows into the adult form of the worm.

The adult worm then travels to its preferred body part, depending on its
species. These areas include the:

    * Bladder
    * Rectum
    * Intestines
    * Liver
    * Veins that carry blood from the intestines to the liver
    * Spleen
    * Lungs

Schistosomiasis is not usually seen in the United States except for returning
travelers or people from other countries who have the infection and are now
living in the US. It is common in many tropical and subtropical areas
worldwide.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary with the species of worm and the phase of infection.

    * Many parasites may cause fever, chills, swollen lymph nodes, and swollenÂ liver and spleen.
    * When the worm first gets into the skin, itÂ may cause itching and a rash (swimmer's itch). In this condition, the schistosome is destroyed within the skin.
    * Intestinal symptoms include abdominal pain and diarrhea (which may be bloody).
    * Urinary symptoms may include frequent urination, painful urination, and blood in the urine. 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you. Tests that may be done include:

    * Antibody test to check for signs of infection
    * Biopsy of tissue
    * Complete blood count (CBC) to check for signs of anemia
    * Eosinophil count to measure the number of certain white blood cells
    * Kidney function tests
    * Liver function tests
    * Stool examination to look for parasite eggs
    * Urinalysis to look for parasite eggs 

## Treatment

This infection is usually treated with the drug praziquantel or oxamniquine.
This is usually given along with corticosteroids. If the infection is severe
or involves the brain, corticosteroids may be given first.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment before significant damage or severe complications occur usually
produces good results.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Bladder cancer
    * Chronic kidney failure
    * Chronic liver damage and an enlarged spleen
    * Colon (large intestine) inflammation
    * Kidney and bladder blockage
    * High blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs (pulmonary hypertension)
    * Repeated blood infections, if bacteria enter the bloodstream through an irritated colon
    * Right-sided heart failure
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of schistosomiasis, especially if
you have:

    * Traveled to a tropical or subtropical area where the disease is known to exist
    * Been exposed to contaminated or possibly contaminated bodies of water

## Prevention

Follow these steps to avoid getting this infection:

    * Avoid swimming or bathing in contaminated or potentially contaminated water.
    * Avoid bodies of water if you do notÂ know whether they are safe.

Snails can hostÂ this parasite. Getting rid of snails in bodies of water used
by humans may help prevent infection.

## Alternative Names

Bilharzia; Katayama fever; Swimmer's itch; Blood fluke; Snail fever

## Images

    * ![Swimmer's itch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2059t.jpg)Swimmer's itch
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Blood flukes. In: Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE,
Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human Parasitology_. 5th ed. London, UK: Elsevier Academic
Press; 2019:chap 11.

Carvalho EM, Lima AAM. Schistosomiasis (bilharziasis). In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 355.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

