Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001362.htm    
                                Description: Sleeping sickness is an infection caused by tiny parasites carried by certain flies. It results in swelling of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sleeping sickness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001362.htm

# Sleeping sickness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleeping sickness is an infection caused by tiny parasites carried by certain
flies. It results in swelling of the brain.

## Causes

Sleeping sickness is caused by two types of parasites _Trypanosoma brucei
rhodesiense_ and _Trypanosomoa brucei gambiense_. _T b rhodesiense_ causes the
more severe form of the illness.

Tsetse flies carry the infection. When an infected fly bites you, the
infection spreads through your blood.

Risk factors include living in parts of Africa where the disease is found and
being bitten by tsetse flies. The disease does not occur in the United States,
but travelers who have visited or lived in Africa can be infected.

## Symptoms

General symptoms include:

    * Mood changes, anxiety
    * Fever, sweating
    * Headache
    * Weakness
    * Insomnia at night
    * Sleepiness during the day (may be uncontrollable)
    * Swollen lymph nodes all over the body
    * Swollen, red, painful nodule at site of the fly bite 

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is often based on a physical examination and detailed information
about the symptoms. If the health care provider suspects sleeping sickness,
you'll be asked about recent travel. Blood tests will be ordered to confirm
the diagnosis.

Tests include the following:

    * Blood smear to check for parasites
    * Cerebrospinal fluid tests (fluid from your spinal cord)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Lymph node aspiration

## Treatment

Medicines used to treat this disorder include:

    * Eflornithine (for _T b gambiense_ only)
    * Melarsoprol
    * Pentamidine (for _T b gambiense_ only)
    * Suramin (Antrypol)

Some people may receive a combination of these medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, death can occur within 6 months from cardiac failure or
from _T b rhodesiense_ infection itself.

 _T b gambiense_ infection causes sleeping sickness disease and gets worse
quickly, often over a few weeks. The disease needs to be treated immediately.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Injury related to falling asleep while driving or during other activities
    * Gradual damage to the nervous system
    * Uncontrollable sleep as the disease gets worse
    * Coma 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider right away if you have symptoms, especially if you've
traveled to places where the disease is common. It is important to begin
treatment as soon as possible.

## Prevention

Pentamidine injections protect against _T b gambiense_ , but not against _T b
rhodesiense_. Because this medicine is toxic, using it for prevention is not
recommended. _T b rhodesiense_ is treated with suranim.

Insect control measures can help prevent the spread of sleeping sickness in
high-risk areas.

## Alternative Names

Parasite infection -Â human African trypanosomiasis

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Blood and tissue protistans I:
hemoflagellates. In: Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human
Parasitology_. 5th ed. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 6.

Kirchhoff LV. Agents of African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 279.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

