Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001378.htm    
                                Description: Hymenolepsis infection is an infestation byÂ one ofÂ two species of tapeworm: Hymenolepis nana or Hymenolepis diminuta. The disease is also called hymenolepiasis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tapeworm infection - hymenolepsis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001378.htm

# Tapeworm infection - hymenolepsis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hymenolepsis infection is an infestation byÂ one ofÂ two species of tapeworm:
_Hymenolepis nana_ or _Hymenolepis diminuta_. The disease is also called
hymenolepiasis.

## Causes

Hymenolepis live in warm climates and are common in the southern United
States. Insects eat the eggs of these worms.

Humans and other animals become infected when they eat material contaminated
by insects (including fleas associated with rats). In an infected person, it
is possible for the worm's entire life cycle to be completed in the bowel, so
infection can last for years.

 _Hymenolepis nana_ infections are much more common than _Hymenolepis
diminuta_ infections in humans. These infections used to be common in the
southeastern United States, in crowded environments, and in people who were
confined to institutions. However, the disease occurs throughout the world.

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur only with heavy infections. Symptoms include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Gastrointestinal discomfort
    * Itchy anus
    * Poor appetite
    * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

A stool exam for the tapeworm eggs confirms the diagnosis.

## Treatment

The treatment for this condition is a single dose of praziquantel, repeated in
10 days.

Household members may also need to be screened and treated because the
infection can be spread easily from person to person.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Expect full recovery following treatment.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from this infection include:

    * Abdominal discomfort
    * Dehydration from prolonged diarrhea

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have chronic diarrhea or abdominal
cramping.

## Prevention

Good hygiene, public health and sanitation programs, and elimination of rats
help prevent the spread of hymenolepiasis.

## Alternative Names

Hymenolepiasis; Dwarf tapeworm infection; Rat tapeworm; Tapeworm - infection

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Alroy KA, Gilman RH. Tapeworm infections. In: Ryan ET, Hill DR, Solomon T,
Aronson NE, Endy TP, eds. _Hunter's Tropical Medicine and Emerging Infectious
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 130.

White AC, Brunetti E. Cestodes. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 333.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

