Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007261.htm    
                                Description: MRSA stands for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. MRSA is a &quot;staph&quot; germ (bacteria) that does not get better with the type of antibiotics that usually cure staph infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007261.htm

# Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

MRSA stands for methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_. MRSA is a
"staph" germ (bacteria) that does not get better with the type of antibiotics
that usually cure staph infections.

When this occurs, the germ is said to be resistant to the antibiotic.

## Causes

Most staph germs are spread by skin-to-skin contact (touching). A doctor,
nurse, other health care provider, or visitors to a hospital may have staph
germs on their body that can spread to a patient.

Once the staph germ enters the body, it can spread to bones, joints, the
blood, or any organ, such as the lungs, heart, or brain.

Serious staph infections are more common in people with chronic (long-term)
medical problems. These include those who:

    * Are in hospitals and long-term care facilities for a long time
    * Are on kidney dialysis (hemodialysis)
    * Receive cancer treatment or medicines that weaken their immune system 

MRSA infections can also occur in healthy people who have not recently been in
the hospital. Most of these MRSA infections are on the skin, or less commonly,
in the lung. People who may be at risk are:

    * Athletes and others who share items such as towels or razors
    * People who inject illegal drugs
    * People who had surgery in the past year
    * Children in day care
    * Members of the military
    * People who have gotten tattoos
    * Recent influenza infection 

## Symptoms

It is normal for healthy people to have staph on their skin. Many of us do.
Most of the time, it does not cause an infection or any symptoms. This is
called "colonization" or "being colonized." Someone who is colonized with MRSA
can spread it to other people.

A sign of a staph skin infection is a red, swollen, and painful area on the
skin. Pus or other fluids may drain from this area. It may look like a boil.
These symptoms are more likely to occur if the skin has been cut or rubbed,
because this gives the MRSA germ a way to enter your body. Symptoms are also
more likely in areas where there is more body hair, because the germ can get
into hair follicles.

MRSA infection in people who are in health care facilities tends to be severe.
These infections may be in the bloodstream, heart, lungs or other organs,
urine, or in the area of a recent surgery. Some symptoms of these severe
infections may include:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough or shortness of breath
    * Fatigue
    * Fever and chills
    * General ill feeling
    * Headache
    * Rash
    * Wounds that do not heal

## Exams and Tests

The only way to know for sure if you have a MRSA or staph infection is to see
a provider.

A cotton swab is used to collect a sample from an open skin rash or skin sore.
Or, a sample of blood, urine, sputum, or pus from an abscess may be collected.
The sample is sent to a lab to test for identification of which bacteria are
present, including staph. If staph is found, it will be tested to see which
antibiotics are and are not effective against it. This process helps tell if
MRSA is present and which antibiotics can be used to treat the infection.

## Treatment

Draining the infection may be the only treatment needed for a skin MRSA
infection that has not spread. A provider should do this procedure. DO NOT try
to pop open or drain the infection yourself. Keep any sore or wound covered
with a clean bandage.

Severe MRSA infections are becoming harder to treat. Your lab test results
will tell the doctor which antibiotic will treat your infection. Your doctor
will follow guidelines about which antibiotics to use, and will look at your
personal health history. MRSA infections are harder to treat if they occur in:

    * The lungs or blood
    * People who are already ill or who have a weak immune system 

You may need to keep taking antibiotics for a long time, even after you leave
the hospital.

Be sure to follow instructions on how to care for your infection at home.

## Support Groups

For more information about MRSA, see the Centers for Disease Control website:
www.cdc.gov/mrsa.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how severe the infection is, and the
person's overall health. Pneumonia and bloodstream infections due to MRSA are
linked with high death rates.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a wound that seems to get worse instead of
healing.

## Prevention

Follow these steps to avoid a staph infection and to prevent an infection from
spreading:

    * Keep your hands clean by washing them thoroughly with soap and water. Or, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
    * Wash your hands as soon as possible after leaving a healthcare facility.
    * Keep cuts and scrapes clean and covered with bandages until they heal.
    * Avoid contact with other people's wounds or bandages.
    * DO NOT share personal items such as towels, clothing, or cosmetics. 

Simple steps for athletes include:

    * Cover wounds with a clean bandage. DO NOT touch other people's bandages.
    * Wash your hands well before and after playing sports.
    * Shower right after exercising. DO NOT share soap, razors, or towels.
    * If you share sports equipment, clean it first with antiseptic solution or wipes. Place clothing or a towel between your skin and the equipment.
    * DO NOT use a common whirlpool or sauna if another person with an open sore used it. Always use clothing or a towel as a barrier.
    * DO NOT share splints, bandages, or braces.
    * Check that shared shower facilities are clean. If they are not clean, shower at home. 

If you have surgery planned, tell your provider if:

    * You have frequent infections
    * You have had a MRSA infection before 

## Alternative Names

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; Hospital-acquired MRSA (HA-MRSA);
Staph - MRSA; Staphylococcal - MRSA

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Methicillin-resistant
_Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA). www.cdc.gov/mrsa/index.html. Updated February
5, 2019. Accessed October 22, 2019.

Que Y-A, Moreillon P. _Staphylococcus aureus_ (including staphylococcal toxic
shock syndrome). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 194.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![MRSA](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRSA_thumb.jpg)MRSA _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

