

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Prenatal Opioid and Substance Exposure

Minus

Related Pages

## Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome and Other Infant and Child Outcomes Related to
Prenatal Opioid and Substance Exposure: NCBDDD Activities

![Chart: showing CDC's 5 Key Strategies for Preventing Opiod Overdoses and
Related Harms](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/chart-preventing-opiod-
overdoses.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Chart: showing CDC's 5 Key Strategies for Preventing Opiod Overdoses
and Related Harms](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/chart-preventing-opiod-
overdoses.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

**As a part of CDC 's 5 key strategies for preventing opioid overdoses and
opioid-related harms, CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities (NCBDDD) is working to address the impact of the opioid crisis on
women who are pregnant, infants, and children.** NCBDDD aims to better
understand neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) and other health outcomes in
infants and children related to substance use in pregnancy. NCBDDD uses
findings to improve the care of mothers and their children and help them
thrive.

Learn more about opioid use during pregnancy.

Read the latest data and statistics about opioid use during pregnancy and NAS.

### NCBDDD's Activities to Support CDC's 5 Key Strategies

![Icon: bar chart and magnifying glass](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/icon-
conduct-surveillance-thumbnail.png)

#### Conduct surveillance and research

##### Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) Surveillance

In fiscal year 2019, NCBDDD received $2 million from Congress to better
understand NAS. With these funds, NCBDDD is supporting public health partners
working with state and territorial health departments to monitor NAS. A
standard surveillance case definition will be used. This will allow more
consistent and comparable data to be gathered across geographic areas.

In fiscal year 2020, CDC is forecasting a funding opportunityexternal icon to
strengthen capacity of existing birth defects surveillance programs to respond
to emerging threats to mothers and babies. Goals include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expanding to include NAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Making data collection faster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Using electronic health records and other methods to better monitor birth defects and NAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Using data to improve health of affected people.

This work builds on NCBDDD's collaboration with March of Dimes, which
supported work in three states to adapt existing birth defects surveillance
methods to conduct surveillance for NAS. The results showed that it is
feasible to monitor NAS building on the experience of birth defects
surveillance.

##### MAT-LINK: MATernaL and Infant NetworK to Understand Outcomes Associated
with Treatment of Opioid Use Disorder during Pregnancy

NCBDDD received funding for MAT-LINK for 3 years (June 2019-2022) through the
Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Trust Fund (PCORTF)external icon. This
project is administered by the Department of Health and Human Services' Office
of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation. MAT-LINK will build a
surveillance network to collect data across 3-5 clinical sites. They will
collect data on maternal, infant, and child health outcomes related to
treatments for opioid use disorder during pregnancy. Project objectives
include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comparing health outcomes across opioid use disorder treatment regimens to inform best practice guidelines for women who are pregnant and infants; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Developing a data platform to collect linked maternal and infant data.

Learn more about MAT-LINK

##### Examining Longer-term Outcomes among Children with NAS

A pilot study from the Tennessee Department of Health, supported by CDC and
March of Dimesexternal icon, looked at developmental outcomes among children
with a history of NAS. They found that these children were more likely to have
a developmental delay or speech or language impairment in early childhood
compared to children without a history of NAS. This was the first study to
look at educational outcomes among children with a history of NAS in the
United States.  Additional research is needed to better understand the longer-
term outcomes of prenatal opioid exposure for children with a history of NAS.

##### Evaluating Possible Associations between Prescription Opioid Use during
Pregnancy and Birth Defects

![Newborn in an incubator](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/newborn-in-
incubator.jpg)

In two case-control studies of birth defects (one using data from the National
Birth Defects Prevention Studyexternal icon and the other using data from the
Slone Birth Defects Studyexternal icon), researchers identified possible
associations between exposure to prescription opioid medication just before or
during early pregnancy and the occurrence of certain birth defects. In a
review articleexternal icon summarizing existing literature (including the two
aforementioned articles), researchers identified birth defects that may be
related to prescription and illicit opioid use or misuse during pregnancy,
including

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital heart defects;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina bifida;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Orofacial clefts.

Additionally, in a 2019 study, researchers found that the number of babies
born with gastroschisis (a birth defect of the abdominal wall) was higher in
U.S. counties with high opioid prescription rates than in counties with low
opioid prescription rates. More research is needed to determine if
prescription and illicit opioid exposure in pregnancy increases the risk of
birth defects.

##### Evaluating Possible Associations between Opioid Use during Pregnancy and
Developmental Disabilities

An analysis of the Study to Explore Early Development (SEED) found that
mothers who were prescribed opioids just before becoming pregnant were more
likely to have a child with autism spectrum disorder or a child with other
developmental disabilities and some autism symptoms. This study is among the
first to look at associations between the prescribing of opioids during
pregnancy and autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities.
More research is needed to better understand developmental outcomes among
children whose mothers were exposed to prescription or illicit opioids up to 3
months before and during pregnancy.

##### Monitoring and Reporting the Occurrence of Prescription Opioid Use in
Women of Reproductive Age and Women who are pregnant

NCBDDD researchers used data from two large insurance claim datasets to look
at opioid prescriptions filled at outpatient pharmacies by women of
reproductive age. Researchers found that each year during 2008-2012, 28% of
women with private health insurance and 39% of women with Medicaid filled a
prescription from a healthcare provider for an opioid medication. The most
commonly prescribed opioids were hydrocodone, codeine, and oxycodone. In
addition, the frequency of opioid prescription claims was consistently higher
among Medicaid-insured women than commercially insured women. More work is
needed to promote interventions to reduce opioid prescriptions among women
when safer alternative treatments are available.

![Icon: Map of the United States](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/icon-build-
state-capacity-thumbnail.png)

#### Build state, local, and tribal capacity

##### Evaluation of State-mandated Reporting of NAS in Six States

NCBDDD collaborated with other CDC and HHS staff to identify laws that mandate
NAS reporting for public health surveillance and evaluate their impact. These
laws helped states estimate the number of babies diagnosed with NAS in their
area. They also helped to identify opportunities for treatment and prevention
for mothers and babies and plan for needed services. These findings can help
other states thinking about laws requiring NAS reporting for public health
surveillance.

##### Rapid Assistance with Data Collection and Analysis in Pennsylvania

The Pennsylvania Department of Healthexternal icon requested the assistance of
NCBDDD, in the form of an Epi-Aid, to assess the quality of hospital data on
NAS reported in Pennsylvania. To accomplish these objectives, data from the
medical records of about 500 infants with possible NAS (along with medical
records for mothers of infants meeting Pennsylvania's NAS case definition)
were collected at five hospitals across Pennsylvania in 2019. Analyses are
ongoing.

##### Local Health Department Surge Support

Through NCBDDD's Local Health Department Initiative, a contractual field
assignee was placed in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania. In this role, she
supported the county health department in responding to the local opioid
crisis. NCBDDD and the Allegheny County Health Departmentexternal icon seek to
improve public health outreach to mothers and their infants affected by the
opioid crisis. Through a partnership with the Association of State and
Territorial Health Officials, and in collaboration with CDC's Division of
Reproductive Health, NCBDDD is working to place additional contractual
assignees in selected local health departments to provide surge support to
respond to the opioid crisis.

![Icon: building](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/icon-support-providers-
thumbnail.png)

#### Support providers, health systems, and payers

##### Clinical and Public Health Partnerships

NCBDDD collaborates with clinical and public health organizations to address
the impact of the opioid and substance use crisis on women who are pregnant,
infants, and children:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs (AMCHP)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * March of Dimesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS)external icon

![Icon: map of the United States](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/icon-
empower-consumers-thumbnail.png)

#### Empower consumers to make safe choices

##### Treating for Two

NCBDDD and partners began _Treating for Two_ to improve the health of women
and babies by identifying the safest treatment options for common conditions
experienced before, during, and after pregnancy. With this initiative, CDC
aims to do the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Support research about health outcomes related to medicine use during pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provide guidance on medicine use in pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Help women and healthcare professionals make treatment decisions together based on the best available information

##### Communicating with Healthcare Providers and Women who are pregnant:
Reducing Stigma

Communication around pregnancy and opioid use can be challenging. Therefore,
it is important for communicators to avoid words and messages that are
stigmatizing or ineffective. NCBDDD has collaborated with March of Dimes in
qualitative studies around communication and messaging for healthcare
providers and women who are pregnant. We are learning more about the knowledge
and attitudes of women and healthcare providers regarding opioid use during
pregnancy and NAS, as well as perceptions of harm from medicine and other
substances.

![Icon: public safety shield](/ncbddd/aboutus/pregnancy/images/icon-partner-
with-public-safety-thumbnail.png)

#### Partner with public safety

##### Collaboration with Child Welfare around Prenatal Alcohol and Other Drug
Exposures

NCBDDD collaborates with the Children's Bureau of the Administration for
Children and Families (ACF)external icon to improve the health and
developmental outcomes of children with prenatal substance exposures in the
child welfare system by promoting appropriate identification, referrals,
interventions, and education. This project also aims to reduce the risk of
repeating the cycles of abuse and neglect and build the infrastructure to
monitor the type and resources needed to care for this population.

#### Publications

Leveraging existing birth defects surveillance infrastructure to build
neonatal abstinence syndrome surveillance systems -- Illinois, New Mexico, and
Vermont, 2015-2016

Public Health Surveillance of Prenatal Opioid Exposure in Mothers and
Infantsexternal icon

Educational Disabilities Among Children Born With Neonatal Abstinence
Syndromeexternal icon

Gastroschisis Trends and Ecological Link to Opioid Prescription Rates in the
United States, 2006-2015

Evaluation of State-Mandated Reporting of Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome -- Six
States, 2013-2017

Brief Report: Maternal Opioid Prescription from Preconception Through
Pregnancy and the Odds of Autism Spectrum Disorder and Autism Features in
Childrenexternal icon

Maternal Use of Opioids During Pregnancy and Congenital Malformations: A
Systematic Reviewexternal icon

Opioid Prescription Claims Among Women of Reproductive Age-United States, 2008
--2012

Periconceptional Use of Opioids and the Risk of Neural Tube Defectsexternal
icon

Maternal Treatment with Opioid Analgesics and Risk for Birth Defectsexternal
icon

For additional resources and information related to opioid exposure during
pregnancy, please visit CDC's Opioid Use During Pregnancy webpages.

Page last reviewed: October 28, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home NCBDDD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Saving Babies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Helping Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protecting People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Improving Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Making a Difference Across the Lifespan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Historyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The 2010âs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organizational Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Amanda Cohn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stephanie Dulin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Georgina Peacock
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Peggy Honein
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Craig Hooper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Betsy Mitchell
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sascha Chaney
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * James Scales, Sr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stuart Shapira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Budget and Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State Funding Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emerging Threats to Mothers and Babies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prenatal Opioid and Substance Exposureplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MAT-LINK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Message from the Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Saving Babies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Helping Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protecting People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Improving Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State-Based Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Top Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Annual Report Archives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Key Findings Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2019 Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2018 Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z Index of Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Connect with Us

Center Documents

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Book_01 book_01  NCBDDD Strategic Plan 2017-2022 Cdc-pdf PDF [PDF - 2 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Globe_01 globe_01  NCBDDD Strategy Map Cdc-pdf PDF [PDF - 396 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chart_01 chart_01  Annual Report

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

