Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000821.htm    
                                Description: Chikungunya is a virus passed to humans by the bite of infected mosquitoes. Symptoms include fever and severe joint pain. The name chikungunya (pronounced &quot;chik-en-gun-ye&quot;) is an African word meaning &quot;bent    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chikungunya virus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000821.htm

# Chikungunya virus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chikungunya is a virus passed to humans by the bite of infected mosquitoes.
Symptoms include fever and severe joint pain. The name chikungunya (pronounced
"chik-en-gun-ye") is an African word meaning "bent over in pain."

For the most up-to-date information, please visit the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention's (CDC) website -- www.cdc.gov/chikungunya.

## Information

**Where Chikungunya is Found**

Before 2013, the virus was found only in Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Indian
and Pacific oceans. In late 2013, outbreaks occurred for the first time in the
Americas in the Caribbean Islands.

In the Americas, local transmission of the disease has been found in 44
countries and territories. This means that mosquitoes in those areas have the
virus and are spreading it to humans.

Since 2014, the disease has been found in travelers coming to the United
States from affected areas in the Americas. Local transmission has occurred in
Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

 **How Chikungunya Can Spread**

Mosquitoes spread the virus to humans. Mosquitoes pick up the virus when they
feed on infected people. They spread the virus when they bite other people.

The mosquitoes that spread chikungunya are the same type that spread dengue
fever, which has similar symptoms. These mosquitoes most often feed on humans
during the day.

## Symptoms

Symptoms develop 3 to 7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. The
disease is easily spread. Most people who become infected have symptoms.

The most common symptoms are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms include:

    * Headache
    * Joint swelling
    * Muscle pain
    * Nausea
    * Rash 

Symptoms are similar to the flu and can be severe, but usually not deadly.
Most people recover in a week. Some have joint pain for months or longer. The
disease can lead to death in frail older adults.

## Treatment

There is no treatment for chikungunya. Like the flu virus, it has to run its
course. You can take steps to help relieve symptoms:

    * Drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated.
    * Get plenty of rest.
    * Take ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), or acetaminophen (Tylenol) to relieve pain and fever.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of chikungunya. Let
your provider know if you have traveled recently in an area where the virus is
spread. Your provider may do a blood test to check for the disease.

## Prevention

There is no vaccine to protect against chikungunya. The best way to avoid
getting the virus is to avoid getting bitten by mosquitoes. If you are in an
area where there is local transmission of the virus, take these steps to
protect yourself:

    * When it is not too hot, cover up with long sleeves, long pants, socks, and a hat.
    * Use clothing coated with permethrin.
    * Use insect repellent with DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus, or para-menthane-diol. When using sunscreen, apply insect repellant after you apply sunscreen.
    * Sleep in a room with air conditioning or with windows with screens. Check screens for large holes.
    * Remove standing water from any outside containers such as buckets, flower pots, and birdbaths.
    * If sleeping outside, sleep under a mosquito net.

If you get chikungunya, try to avoid getting bitten by mosquitoes so you do
not pass the virus to others.

## Alternative Names

Chikungunya virus infection; Chikungunya

## Images

    * ![Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1246t.jpg)Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Chikungunya virus.
www.cdc.gov/chikungunya. Updated December 17, 2018. Accessed May 29, 2019.

Dockrell DH, Sundar S, Angus BJ, Hobson RP. Infectious disease. In: Ralston
SH, Penman ID, Strachan MWJ, Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and
Practice of Medicine_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

Khabbaz R, Bell BP, Schuchat A, et al. Emerging and reemerging infectious
disease threats. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 14.

Rothe C, Jong EC. Emerging infectious diseases and the international traveler.
In: Sanford CA, Pottinger PS, Jong EC, eds. _The Travel and Tropical Medicine
Manual_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Chikungunya

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

