Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003349.htm    
                                Description: The rotavirus antigen test detects rotavirus in the feces. This is the most common cause of infectious diarrhea in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rotavirus antigen test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003349.htm

# Rotavirus antigen test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The rotavirus antigen test detects rotavirus in the feces. This is the most
common cause of infectious diarrhea in children.

## How the Test is Performed

There are many ways to collect stool samples.

    * You can catch the stool on plastic wrap that is loosely placed over the toilet bowl and held in place by the toilet seat. Then you put the sample into a clean container.
    * One type of test kit supplies a special toilet tissue to collect the sample, which is then placed in a container.
    * For infants and young children wearing diapers, line the diaper with plastic wrap. Position the plastic wrap to prevent urine and stool from mixing in order to get a better sample. 

The sample should be collected while the diarrhea is occurring. Take the
sample to the lab to be checked.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves normal defecation.

## Why the Test is Performed

Rotavirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis ("stomach flu") in children.
This test is done to diagnose a rotavirus infection.

## Normal Results

Normally, rotavirus is not found in the stool.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
labs use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health
care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Rotavirus in the stool indicates a rotavirus infection is present.

## Risks

There are no risks associated with this test.

## Considerations

Because rotavirus is easily passed from person to person, take these steps to
prevent the germ from spreading:

    * Wash your hands well after contact with a child who could be infected.
    * Disinfect any surface that has been in contact with stool. 

Ask your provider about a vaccine to help prevent severe rotavirus infection
in children under 8 months old.

Watch infants and children who have this infection closely for signs of
dehydration.

## Alternative Names

Gastroenteritis - rotavirus antigen

## Images

    * ![Fecal sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9856t.jpg)Fecal sample

## References

Bass DM. Rotaviruses, calciviruses, and astroviruses. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 265.

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 4/10/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rotavirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RotavirusInfection_thumb.jpg)Rotavirus
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

