Link: https://medlineplus.gov/about/using/searchtips/    
                                Description: The search box at the top of every MedlinePlus page searches through the entire collection. Learn how to use the search engine to refine and expand your search.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

About MedlinePlus ->

Using MedlinePlus ->

Search Tips

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/about/using/searchtips/

# Search Tips

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## How do I search MedlinePlus?

The search box appears at the top of every MedlinePlus page.

To search MedlinePlus, type a word or phrase into the search box. Click theÂ
green âGOâ _Â_ button or press the Enter button on your keyboard. The
results page shows your first 10 matches. If your search yields more than 10
results, click on _Next_ or page number links on the bottom of the page to
view more.

The default display for MedlinePlus searches is a comprehensive list of 'All
Results'. Users can focus their search on one part of the site by navigating
to an individual collection of results.

## What do the links in the 'Refine by Type' box under 'All Results' mean?

Your initial search results show matches from all of the MedlinePlus content
areas. The links in the 'Refine by Type' box under 'All Results' represent
sets of MedlinePlus content areas, known as collections. The collections help
you narrow your search by displaying results exclusively from one collection.

MedlinePlus has nine collections:

    *  **Health Topics:** More than 1,000 pages covering wellness issues and the symptoms, causes, treatment, and prevention of diseases, illnesses, and health conditions.
    *  **Medical Encyclopedia:** Articles and images related to hundreds of diseases and conditions.
    *  **External Health Links:** Links to webpages from selected government agencies and health-related organizations. These links may include interactive tutorials, videos, easy-to-read materials, and National Institutes of Health (NIH) publications. They appear on MedlinePlus Health Topic pages, but they're listed individually in search results.
    *  **Medical Tests:** Over 150 articles about medical tests. These pages explain what the tests are used for, why a doctor may order them, how a test will feel, and what the results may mean.
    *  **Drugs and Supplements:** Prescription and over-the-counter medication information and information on herbs and supplements.
    *  **National Institutes of Health:** Links to articles and images created by the 27 Institutes and Centers at NIH. Each Institute or Center has a specific research agenda, often focusing on particular diseases or body systems.
    *  **MedlinePlus Magazine:** Articles that appear in the online version of the NIH MedlinePlus Magazine.
    *  **Healthy Recipes:** Recipes that show you how to prepare tasty, healthy meals. The recipes use easy-to-follow instructions and include nutrition information.
    *  **Multiple Languages:** Links to high-quality health information in languages in addition to English and Spanish.

## Can I search for a phrase?

Yes, you can search for a phrase by enclosing words in quotation marks. For
example, "health services research" retrieves pages containing that phrase.

## Will the search automatically expand my search words to include synonyms?

Yes, a built-in thesaurus automatically expands your search. The thesaurus
contains a list of synonyms from NLM's MeSHÂ® (Medical Subject Headings) and
other sources. When there is a match between a search term and a word in the
thesaurus, the thesaurus automatically adds the synonym(s) to your search. For
example, if you search for the word _swelling_ , results are automatically
retrieved for _edema_.

## Is Boolean searching allowed? What about wildcards?

Yes, you can use the following operators: OR, NOT, -, +, *

You do not need to use AND because the search engine automatically finds
resources containing all of your search terms.

OR| Use when you want either term, but not necessarily both, to appear in the
results  
Example: _Tylenol OR Acetaminophen_  
---|---  
NOT or -| Use when you do not want a particular term to appear in the results  
Examples: _flu NOT bird_ or _flu -bird_  
+| Use when you require the exact word to appear in all of the results.  
For multiple words, you must use + in front of each word that must be exact.  
Example: + _tylenol_ finds results with the brand name "Tylenol", without
automatically including all results with the generic synonym "acetaminophen".  
*| Use as a wildcard when you want the search engine to fill in the blank for you; you must enter at least three letters  
Example: _mammo_ * finds mammogram, mammography, etc.  
  
  

## Can I restrict my search to a specific website?

Yes, you can restrict your search to a specific site by adding 'site:' and the
domain or URL to your search words. For example, if you want to find breast
cancer information in MedlinePlus only from the National Cancer Institute,
search on _breast cancer site:cancer.gov_.

## Is the search case sensitive?

The search engine is not case sensitive. The search engine matches words and
concepts regardless of capitalization. For example, a search on _alzheimer's
disease_ also retrieves pages containing the words _Alzheimer's Disease_.

## What about searching for special characters like Ã±?

You can use special characters in your search, but they're not required. When
you use diacritics in your search, the search engine retrieves pages that
contain those diacritics. The search engine also retrieves pages that contain
the term without special characters. For example, if you search on the word
_niÃ±o_ , your results include pages that contain the word _niÃ±o_ or _nino_.

## Will the search check my spelling?

Yes, the search engine suggests replacements when it doesn't recognize your
search term.

## Why didn't my search find anything? What should I do?

Your search didn't find anything because you spelled a word incorrectly or
because the information you're looking for isn't available in MedlinePlus.

If you spelled a word wrong, the search engine consults the thesaurus for a
possible match and makes suggestions. If the search engine doesn't give you
suggestions, consult a dictionary for the correct spelling.

If the information you're looking for isn't available on MedlinePlus, you can
try searching other resources from the National Library of Medicine. For
example, you can search MEDLINE/PubMed, NLM's database of biomedical journal
literature.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

