Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hivprepandpep.html    
                                Description: PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) and PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) are HIV prevention methods where medicines are prescribed before (pre) or post (after) there is exposure to HIV. Discover more about treatment as prevention.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

HIV: PrEP and PEP

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hivprepandpep.html

#  HIV: PrEP and PEP

Also called: Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis and Post-Exposure Prophylaxis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are PrEP and PEP?

PrEP and PEP are medicines to prevent HIV. Each type is used in a different
situation:

    * **PrEP** stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis. It is for people who don't already have HIV but are at very high risk of getting it. PrEP is daily medicine that can reduce this risk. With PrEP, if you do get exposed to HIV, the medicine can stop HIV from taking hold and spreading throughout your body.
    * **PEP** stands for post-exposure prophylaxis. PEP is for people who have possibly been exposed to HIV. It is only for emergency situations. PEP must be started within 72 hours after a possible exposure to HIV.

## PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis)

### Who should consider taking PrEP?

PrEP is for people without HIV who are at very high risk for getting it. This
includes:

**Gay/bisexual men who**

    * Have an HIV-positive partner
    * Have multiple partners, a partner with multiple partners, or a partner whose HIV status is unknown and 
      * Have anal sex without a condom **OR**
      * Have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease (STD) in the last 6 months

**Heterosexual men and women who**

    * Have an HIV-positive partner
    * Have multiple partners, a partner with multiple partners, or a partner whose HIV status is unknown and 
      * Don't always use a condom when having sex with people who inject drugs **OR**
      * Don't always use a condom when having sex with bisexual men

**People who inject drugs and**

    * Share needles or other equipment to inject drugs **OR**
    * Are at risk for getting HIV from sex

If you have a partner who is HIV-positive and are considering getting
pregnant, talk to your health care provider about PrEP. Taking it may help
protect you and your baby from getting HIV infection while you try to get
pregnant, during pregnancy, or while breastfeeding.

### How well does PrEP work?

PrEP is very effective when you take it every day. It reduces the risk of
getting HIV from sex by more than 90 percent. In people who inject drugs, it
reduces the risk of HIV by more than 70 percent. PrEP is much less effective
if you do not take it consistently.

PrEP does not protect against other STDs, so you should still use condoms
every time you have sex.

You must have an HIV test every 3 months while taking PrEP, so you'll have
regular follow-up visits with your health care provider. If you are having
trouble taking PrEP every day or if you want to stop taking PrEP, talk to your
health care provider.

### Does PrEP cause side effects?

Some people taking PrEP may have side effects, like nausea. The side effects
are usually not serious and often get better over time. If you are taking
PrEP, tell your health care provider if you have a side effect that bothers
you or that does not go away.

## PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis)

### Who should consider taking PEP?

If you are HIV-negative and you think you may have been recently exposed to
HIV, contact your health care provider immediately or go to an emergency room
right away.

You may be prescribed PEP if you are HIV negative or don't know your HIV
status, and in the last 72 hours you

    * Think you may have been exposed to HIV during sex,
    * Shared needles or drug preparation equipment, **OR**
    * Were sexually assaulted

Your health care provider or emergency room doctor will help to decide whether
PEP is right for you.

PEP may also be given to a health care worker after a possible exposure to HIV
at work, for example, from a needlestick injury.

### When should I start PEP and how long do I need to take it?

PEP must be started within 72 hours (3 days) after a possible exposure to HIV.
The sooner you start it, the better; every hour counts.

You need to take the PEP medicines every day for 28 days. You will have to see
your health care provider at certain times during and after taking the PEP, so
you can have an HIV screening test and other testing.

### Does PEP cause side effects?

Some people taking PEP may have side effects, like nausea. The side effects
are usually not serious and often get better over time. If you are taking PEP,
tell your health care provider if you have a side effect that bothers you or
that does not go away.

PEP medicines may also interact with other medicines that a person is taking
(called a drug interaction). So it's important to tell your health care
provider about any other medicines that you take.

### Can I take PEP every time I have unprotected sex?

PEP is only for emergency situations. It is not the right choice for people
who may be exposed to HIV frequently - for example, if you often have sex
without a condom with a partner who is HIV-positive. In that case, you should
talk to your health care provider about whether PrEP (pre-exposure
prophylaxis) would be right for you.

## Start Here

    * Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (AIDS.gov)
    * Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) (AIDS.gov)
    * PrEP (Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis) 101 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * All About PrEP! ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Greater Than AIDS)
    * Black Women and PrEP (Black AIDS Institute)
    * PrEP vs. PEP ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Say Yes to PrEP: FAQS (American Social Health Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: PEP (Post-Exposure Prophylaxis) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: PrEP (Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: HHS Provides Free PrEP Medication to People Without Drug Coverage.
    * Article: PrEParing to End the HIV Epidemic - California's Route as a...
    * Article: Where Were the Women? Gender Parity in Clinical Trials.
    * HIV: PrEP and PEP -- see more articles
    * \-- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * AIDSinfo Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Provider (PleasePrEPMe) Also in Spanish
    * Find PrEP in Your Area (American Social Health Association)
    * State HIV/AIDS Hotlines & Online Resources (Greater Than AIDS)

## Women

    * PrEP for Women (The Well Project)

## Patient Handouts

    * PEP 101 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * PrEP 101 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrEP.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * HIV/AIDS
    * HIV/AIDS Medicines

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on HIV: PrEP and PEP is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _HIV: PrEP and PEP_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 26 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

