Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003346.htm    
                                Description: Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a protein produced by prostate cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003346.htm

# Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a protein produced by prostate cells.

The PSA test is done to help screen for and follow prostate cancer in men.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Make sure your health care provider knows all the medicines you are taking.
Some drugs cause your PSA level to be falsely low.

In most cases, no other special steps are needed to prepare for this test. You
should not have a PSA test soon after having a urinary tract infection or
undergoing a procedure or surgery involving the urinary system. Ask your
provider how long you should wait.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a prick when the needle is inserted. Afterward,
there may be some throbbing or a slight bruise. These soon go away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Reasons for a PSA test:

    * This test may be done to screen for prostate cancer.
    * It is also used to follow people after prostate cancer treatment to see if the cancer has come back.
    * If a provider feels the prostate gland is not normal during physical exam. 

MORE ABOUT SCREENING FOR PROSTATE CANCER

Measuring the PSA level can increase the chance of finding prostate cancer
when it is very early. But there is debate over the value of the PSA test for
detecting prostate cancer. No single answer fits all men.

For some men 55 through 69 years old, screening may help reduce the chance of
death from prostate cancer. However, for many men, screening and treatment
could potentially be harmful instead of beneficial.

Before having the test, talk to your provider about the pros and cons of
having a PSA test. Ask about:

    * Whether screening decreases your chance of dying from prostate cancer
    * Whether there is any harm from prostate cancer screening, such as side-effects from testing or overtreatment of cancer when discovered

Men younger than age 55 have a higher chance of developing prostate cancer and
should talk with their provider about PSA screening if they:

    * Have a family history of prostate cancer (especially a brother or father)
    * Are African American

## Normal Results

The PSA test result cannot diagnose prostate cancer. Only a prostate biopsy
can diagnose this cancer.

Your provider will look at your PSA result and consider your age, ethnicity,
medicines you are taking, and other things to decide whether your PSA is
normal and whether you need more tests.

A normal PSA level is considered to be 4.0 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of
blood, but this varies by age:

    * For men in their 50s or younger, a PSA level should be below 2.5 in most cases.
    * Older men often have slightly higher PSA levels than younger men. 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high PSA level has been linked to an increased chance of having prostate
cancer.

PSA testing is an important tool for detecting prostate cancer, but it is not
foolproof. Other conditions can cause a rise in PSA, including:

    * A larger prostate
    * Prostate infection (prostatitis)
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Recent tests on your bladder (cystoscopy) or prostate (biopsy)
    * Catheter tube recently placed into your bladder to drain urine
    * Recent intercourse or ejaculation
    * Recent colonoscopyÂ 

Your provider will consider the following things when deciding on the next
step:

    * Your age
    * If you had a PSA test in the past and how much and how fast your PSA level has changed
    * If a prostate lump was found during your exam
    * Other symptoms you may have
    * Other risk factors for prostate cancer, such as ethnicity and family history 

Men at high risk may need to have more tests. These may include:

    * Repeating your PSA test, most often sometime within 3 months.Â You may receive treatment for a prostate infection first.
    * A prostate biopsy will be done if the first PSA level is high, or if the level keeps rising when the PSA is measured again.
    * A follow-up test called a free PSA (fPSA). This measures the percentage of PSA in your blood that is not bound to other proteins. The lower the level of this test, the more likely it is that prostate cancer is present. 

Other tests may also be done. The exact role of these tests in deciding on
treatment is unclear.

    * A urine test called PCA-3.
    * An MRI of the prostate may help identify cancer in an area of the prostate that is hard to reach during a biopsy. 

If you have been treated for prostate cancer, the PSA level can show if
treatment is working or if the cancer has come back. Often, PSA level rises
before there are any symptoms. This may happen months or years beforehand.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.
Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin) 
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Prostate-specific antigen; Prostate cancer screening test; PSA

## Patient Instructions

    * Prostate brachytherapy - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Morgan TM, Palapattu GS, Partin AW, Wei JT. Prostate cancer tumor markers. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology._
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 108.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer screening (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-screening-
pdq#section/all. Updated October 18, 2019. Accessed January 24, 2020.

Small EJ. Prostate cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 191.

US Preventive Services Task Force; Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Screening for
prostate cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_JAMA._ 2018;319(18):1901-1913. PMID: 29801017
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29801017.

## Review Date 1/15/2020

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prostate Cancer
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancerScreening_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Cancer Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

