Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000846.htm    
                                Description: Cancer screenings can help find signs of cancer early, before you notice any symptoms. In many cases, finding cancer early makes it easier to treat or cure. However, at present it is not clear if screening    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate cancer screening

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000846.htm

# Prostate cancer screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cancer screenings can help find signs of cancer early, before you notice any
symptoms. In many cases, finding cancer early makes it easier to treat or
cure. However, at present it is not clear if screening for prostate cancer is
helpful for most men. For this reason, you should speak with your health care
provider before having a prostate cancer screening.

## Types of Screenings

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test is a blood test that checks the level of
PSA in your blood.

    * In some cases, a high level of PSA could mean you have prostate cancer.
    * But other conditions can also cause a high level, such as infection in the prostate or an enlarged prostate. You may need another test to find out if you have cancer.
    * Other blood tests or a prostate biopsy can help diagnose a cancer if the PSA test is high. 

Digital rectal exam (DRE) is a test in which your provider inserts a
lubricated, gloved finger into your rectum. This allows the provider to check
the prostate for lumps or unusual areas. Most cancers cannot be felt with this
type of exam, at least in the early stages.

In most cases, the PSA and DRE are done together.Â

Imaging tests, such as an ultrasound or an MRI do not do an accurate job of
screening for prostate cancer.

## Benefits and Risks of Screenings

The benefit of any cancer screening test is to find cancer early, when it
easier to treat. But the value of PSA screening for prostate cancer is
debated. No single answer fits all men.

Prostate cancer often grows very slowly. PSA levels can begin to rise years
before a cancer causes any symptoms or problems. It is also very common as men
age. In many cases, the cancer will not cause any problems or shorten a man's
life span.

For these reasons, it is not clear if the benefits of routine screenings
outweigh the risks or side effects of being treated for prostate cancer once
it is found.

There are other factors to think about before having a PSA test:

    *  **Anxiety.** Elevated PSA levels does not always mean you have cancer. These results and the need for further testing can cause a lot of fear and anxiety, even if you do not have prostate cancer.
    *  **Side effects from further testing.** If your PSA test is higher than normal, you may need to have a one or more biopsies to find out for sure. A biopsy is safe, but can cause problems such as an infection, pain, fever, or blood in the semen or urine.
    *  **Overtreatment.** Many prostate cancers will not affect your normal life span. But since it is impossible to know for sure, most people want to get treatment. Cancer treatment can have serious side effects, including problems with erections and urinating. These side effects can cause more problems than the untreated cancer. 

## Who Needs Screenings

Measuring the PSA level can increase the chance of finding prostate cancer
when it is very early. But there is debate over the value of the PSA test for
detecting prostate cancer. No single answer fits all men.

If you're 55 through 69 years old, before having the test, talk to your
provider about the pros and cons of having a PSA test. Ask about:

    * Whether screening decreases your chance of dying from prostate cancer.
    * Whether there is any harm from prostate cancer screening, such as side effects from testing or overtreatment of cancer when discovered.
    * Whether you have a higher risk of prostate cancer than others. 

If you are age 55 or younger, screening is not generally recommended. You
should talk with your provider about if you have a higher risk for prostate
cancer. Risk factors include:

    * Having a family history of prostate cancer (especially a brother or father)
    * Being African American 

For men older than age 70, most recommendations are against screening.

## Alternative Names

Prostate cancer screening - PSA; Prostate cancer screening - digital rectal
exam; Prostate cancer screening - DRE

## References

Carter HB. American Urological Association (AUA) guideline on prostate cancer
detection: process and rationale. _BJU Int_. 2013;112(5):543-547. PMID:
23924423 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23924423.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer screening (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-screening-
pdq#section/all. Updated June 15, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Nelson WG, Carter HB, DeWeese TL, Antonarakis ES, Eisenberger MA. Prostate
cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 84.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Screening for
prostate cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_JAMA_. 2018;319(18):1901-1913. PMID: 29801017
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29801017.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 12/17-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer Screening

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

