Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007665.htm    
                                Description: A prostate biopsy is the removal of tiny samples of prostate tissue to examine it for signs of prostate cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007665.htm

# Prostate biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A prostate biopsy is the removal of tiny samples of prostate tissue to examine
it for signs of prostate cancer.

The prostate is a small, walnut-sized gland just under the bladder. It wraps
around the urethra, the tube that carries urine out of the body. The prostate
makes semen, the fluid that carries sperm.

## How the Test is Performed

There are three main ways to perform a prostate biopsy.

 **Transrectal prostate biopsy** \- through the rectum. This is the most
common method.

    * You will be asked to lie still on your left side with your knees bent. 
    * The health care provider will insert a finger-sized ultrasound probe into your rectum. You may feel a little discomfort or pressure.
    * The ultrasound allows the provider to see images of the prostate. Using these images, the provider will inject a numbing medicine around the prostate.
    * Then, using ultrasound to guide the biopsy needle, the provider will insert the needle into the prostate to take a sample. This may cause a brief stinging sensation.
    * About 10 to 18 samples will be taken. They will be sent to the lab for examination.
    * The entire procedure will take about 10 minutes.

Other prostate biopsy methods are used, but not very often. These include:

 **Transurethral** \- through the urethra.

    * You will receive medicine to make you sleepy so you do not feel pain.
    * A flexible tube with a camera on the end (cystoscope) is inserted through the opening of the urethra at the tip of the penis.
    * Tissue samples are gathered from the prostate through the scope.

 **Perineal** \- through perineum (the skin between the anus and the scrotum).

    * You will receive medicine to make you sleepy so you do not feel pain.
    * A small cut is made in the perineum.
    * A needle is inserted to collect prostate tissue.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will inform you about the risks and benefits of the biopsy. You
may have to sign a consent form.

Several days before the biopsy, your provider may tell you to stop taking any:

    * Anticoagulants (blood thinning drugs) such as warfarin, (Coumadin), clopidogrel (Plavix), apixaban (Eliquis), dabigatran (Pradaxa), edoxaban (Savaysa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or aspirin
    * NSAIDs, such as aspirin and ibuprofen
    * Herbal supplements
    * Vitamins

Continue to take any prescription medicines unless your provider tells you not
to take them.

Your provider may ask you to:

    * Eat only light meals the day before the biopsy.
    * Do an enema at home before the procedure to cleanse your rectum.
    * Take antibiotics the day before or on the day of your biopsy.

## How the Test will Feel

During the procedure you may feel:

    * Mild discomfort while the probe is inserted
    * A brief sting when a sample is taken with the biopsy needle 

After the procedure, you may have:

    * Soreness in your rectum
    * Small amounts of blood in your stools, urine, or semen, which may last for days to weeks
    * Light bleeding from your rectum 

To prevent infection after the biopsy, your provider may prescribe antibiotics
to take for several days after the procedure. Be sure you take the full dose
as directed.

## Why the Test is Performed

A biopsy is done to check for prostate cancer or to find the cause of an
enlarged prostate.

Your provider may recommend a prostate biopsy if:

    * A blood test shows that you have a higher than normal prostate specific antigen (PSA) level
    * Your provider discovers a lump or abnormality in your prostate during a digital rectal exam

## Normal Results

Normal results from the biopsy suggest that no cancer cells have been found.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive biopsy result means that cancer cells have been found. The lab will
give the cells a grade called a Gleason score. This helps predict how fast the
cancer will grow. Your doctor will talk to you about your treatment options.

The biopsy may also show cells that look abnormal, but may or may not be
cancer. Your provider will talk with you about what steps to take. You may
need another biopsy.

## Risks

A prostate biopsy is generally safe. Risks include:

    * Infection
    * Trouble passing urine
    * Allergic reaction to medicines
    * Bleeding or bruising at the biopsy site

## Alternative Names

Prostate gland biopsy; Transrectal prostate biopsy; Fine needle biopsy of the
prostate; Core biopsy of the prostate; Targeted prostate biopsy; Prostate
biopsy - transrectal ultrasound (TRUS); Stereotactic transperineal prostate
biopsy (STPB)

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Babayan RK, Katz MH. Biopsy prophylaxis, technique, complications, and repeat
biopsies. In: Mydlo JH, Godec CJ, eds. _Prostate Cancer: Science and Clinical
Practice_. 2nd ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

Gomella LG, Halpern EJ, Trabulsi EJ. Prostate biopsy: techniques and imaging.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 10/10/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prostate Cancer
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancerScreening_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Cancer Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

