Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003627.htm    
                                Description: Semen analysis measures the amount and quality of a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Semen analysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003627.htm

# Semen analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Semen analysis measures the amount and quality of a man's semen and sperm.
Semen is the thick, white fluid released during ejaculation that contains
sperm.

This test is sometimes called a sperm count.

## How the Test is Performed

You will need to provide a semen sample. Your health care provider will
explain how to collect a sample.

![Sperm release
pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200019t.gif)Watch this
video about:Sperm release pathway

Methods for collecting a sperm sample include:

    * Masturbating into a sterile jar or cup
    * Using a special condom during intercourse given to you by your health care provider 

You should get the sample to the lab within 30 minutes. If the sample is
collected at home, keep it in the inside pocket of your coat so that it will
stay at body temperature while you are transporting it.

A laboratory specialist must look at the sample within 2 hours of the
collection. The earlier the sample is analyzed, the more reliable the results.
The following things will be evaluated:

    * How the semen thickens into a solid and turns to liquid
    * Fluid thickness, acidity, and sugar content
    * Resistance to flow (viscosity)
    * Movement of the sperm (motility)
    * Number and structure of the sperm
    * Volume of semen 

## How to Prepare for the Test

In order to have an adequate sperm count, do not have any sexual activity that
causes ejaculation for 2Â to 3 days before the test. However, this time should
not be longer than 5 days, after which the quality can diminish.

## How the Test will Feel

Talk to your provider if you are uncomfortable with how the sample is to be
collected.

## Why the Test is Performed

Semen analysis is one of the first tests done to evaluate a man's fertility.
It can help determine if a problem in sperm production or quality of the sperm
is causing infertility. About half of couples unable to have children have a
male infertility problem.

The test may also be used after a vasectomy to make sure there are no sperm in
the semen. This can confirm the success of the vasectomy.

The test may also be performed for the following condition:

    * Klinefelter syndrome

## Normal Results

A few of the common normal values are listed below.

    * The normal volume varies from 1.5 to 5.0 milliliter per ejaculation.
    * The sperm count varies from 20 to 150 million sperm per milliliter.
    * At least 60% of the sperm should have a normal shape and show normal forward movement (motility). 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

It is not completely clear how these values and other results from a semen
analysis should be interpreted. An abnormal result does not always mean there
is a problem with a man's ability to have children.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may suggest a male infertility problem. For example, if the
sperm count is very low or very high, a man may be less fertile. The acidity
of the semen and the presence of white blood cells (suggesting infection) may
affect fertility. Testing may reveal abnormal shapes or abnormal movements of
the sperm.

However, there are many unknowns in male infertility. Further testing may be
needed if abnormalities are found.

Many of these problems are treatable.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

The following may affect a man's fertility:

    * Alcohol
    * Many recreational and prescription drugs
    * Tobacco 

## Alternative Names

Male fertility test; Sperm count; Infertility - semen analysis

## Images

    * ![Sperm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19471t.jpg)Sperm
    * ![Semen analysis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9875t.jpg)Semen analysis

## References

Barak S, Baker HWG. Clinical management of male infertility. In: Jameson JL,
De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al. eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 141.

Niederberger CS. Male infertility. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters
CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Male
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MaleInfertlity_thumb.jpg)Male
Infertility _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

