Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000121.htm    
                                Description: The key male reproductive organs include the testes, epididymis, urethra, vas deferens, prostate gland, seminal vesicle, and penis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Sperm release pathway

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000121.htm

# Sperm release pathway

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200019_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200019_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The key male reproductive organs include the testes, epididymis, urethra, vas
deferens, prostate gland, seminal vesicle, and penis.

The testes are composed of coiled structures called seminiferous tubules,
which are the sites of sperm production. The structure on top of the
seminiferous tubules in the testes is the epididymis. The sperm migrate from
of the seminiferous tubules to the epididymis. Within the epididymis, the
sperm mature while they are stored in this structure.

The ejaculation process begins as the penis fills with blood and becomes
erect. With sufficient stimulation, mature sperm travel from the epididymis
through the vas deferens, a muscular tube, which propels sperm forward through
smooth muscle contractions. The sperm arrive first at the ampulla, where
secretions from the seminal vesicle are added.

From the ampulla, seminal fluid is propelled forward through the ejaculatory
ducts toward the urethra, passing first by the prostate gland, where a milky
fluid is added to form semen. Finally, the semen is ejaculated through the far
end of the urethra.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Male Infertility

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

