Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002998.htm    
                                Description: Circumcision is the surgical removal of the foreskin of the penis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Circumcision

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002998.htm

# Circumcision

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Circumcision is the surgical removal of the foreskin of the penis.

## Description

The health care provider will most often numb the penis with local anesthesia
before the procedure starts. The numbing medicine may be injected at the base
of the penis, in the shaft, or applied as a cream.

There are several ways to perform a circumcision. Most commonly, the foreskin
is pushed from the head of the penis and clamped with a metal or plastic ring-
like device.

If the ring is metal, the foreskin is cut off and the metal device is removed.
The wound heals in 5 to 7 days.

If the ring is plastic, a piece of suture is tied tightly around the foreskin.
This pushes the tissue into a groove in the plastic over the head of the
penis. Within 5 to 7 days, the plastic covering the penis falls free, leaving
a completely healed circumcision.

The baby may be given a sweetened pacifier during the procedure. Tylenol
(acetaminophen) may be given afterward.

In older and adolescent boys, circumcision is most often done under general
anesthesia so the boy is asleep and pain free. The foreskin is removed and
stitched onto the remaining skin of the penis. Stitches that dissolve are used
to close the wound. They will be absorbed by the body within 7 to 10 days. The
wound may take up to 3 weeks to heal.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Circumcision is often performed in healthy boys for cultural or religious
reasons. In the United States, a newborn boy is often circumcised before he
leaves the hospital. Jewish boys, however, are circumcised when they are 8
days old.

In other parts of the world, including Europe, Asia, and South and Central
America, circumcision is rare in the general population.

The merits of circumcision have been debated. Opinions about the need for
circumcision in healthy boys vary among providers. Some believe there is great
value to having an intact foreskin, such as allowing for a more natural sexual
response during adulthood.

In 2012 a task force of the American Academy of Pediatrics reviewed current
research and found that the health benefits of newborn male circumcision
outweigh the risks. They recommended that there should be access to this
procedure for those families that choose it. Families should weigh the health
benefits and risks in light of their own personal and cultural preferences.
The medical benefits alone may not outweigh those other considerations.

## Risks

Risks related to circumcision:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Redness around the surgery site
    * Injury to the penis 

Some research has suggested that uncircumcised male infants have an increased
risk of certain conditions, including:

    * Cancer of the penis
    * Certain sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV
    * Infections of the penis 
    * Phimosis (tightness of the foreskin that prevents it from retracting) 
    * Urinary tract infections 

The overall increased risk for these conditions is thought to be relatively
small.

Proper hygiene of the penis and safe sexual practices can help prevent many of
these conditions. Proper hygiene is especially important for uncircumcised
males.

## After the Procedure

For newborns:

    * Healing time is about 1 week.
    * Place petroleum jelly (Vaseline) onto the area after changing the diaper. This helps protect the healing area.
    * Some swelling and yellow crust formation around the site is normal. 

For older children and adolescents:

    * Healing may take up to 3 weeks.
    * In most cases, the child will be released from the hospital on the day of the surgery.
    * At home, children should avoid vigorous exercise while the wound heals.
    * If bleeding occurs during the first 24 hours after surgery, use a clean cloth to apply pressure to the wound for 10 minutes.
    * Place an ice pack on the area (20 minutes on, 20 minutes off) for the first 24 hours after surgery. This helps reduce swelling and pain. 

Bathing or showering is allowed most of the time. The surgical cut may be
gently washed with mild, unscented soap.

Change the dressing at least once a day and apply an antibiotic ointment. If
the dressing gets wet, change it promptly.

Use prescribed pain medicine as directed. Pain medicines should not be needed
longer than 4 to 7 days. In infants, use only acetaminophen (Tylenol), if
needed.

Call your provider if:

    * New bleeding occurs
    * Pus drains from the area of the surgical cut
    * Pain becomes severe or lasts for longer than expected
    * The entire penis looks red and swollen 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Circumcision is considered a very safe procedure for both newborns and older
children.

## Alternative Names

Foreskin removal; Removal of foreskin; Newborn care - circumcision; Neonatal
care - circumcision

## Images

    * ![Foreskin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9189t.jpg)Foreskin
    * ![Circumcision - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10220t.jpg)Circumcision - series

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics Task Force on Circumcision. Male circumcision.
_Pediatrics_. 2012;130(3):e756-785. PMID: 22926175
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22926175.

Lao OB, Raynor SC. Circumcision. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, Ostlie DJ, eds.
_Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 60.

McCammon KA, Zuckerman JM, Jordan GH. Surgery of the penis and urethra. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Circumcision](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Circumcision_thumb.jpg)Circumcision
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

