Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007015.htm    
                                Description: Fertile days are the days a woman is most likely to get pregnant.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pregnancy - identifying fertile days

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007015.htm

# Pregnancy - identifying fertile days

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fertile days are the days a woman is most likely to get pregnant.

Infertility is a related topic.

## Information

When trying to become pregnant, many couples plan intercourse between days 11
to 14 of the woman's 28-day cycle. This is when ovulation occurs.

However, it is hard to know exactly when ovulation will happen. Health care
providers recommend that couples who are trying to have a baby have sex
between days 7 and 20 of a woman's menstrual cycle. In order to become
pregnant, having sex every other day or every third day works just as well as
having sex every day.

    * Sperm can live inside a woman's body for 3 to 5 days.
    * However, a released egg only lives for 4 to 12 hours.
    * The highest pregnancy rates have been reported when the egg and sperm join together within 4 to 6 hours of ovulation. 

![Ovulation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200064t.gif)Watch this
video about:Ovulation

If you have an irregular menstrual cycle, an ovulation predictor kit can help
you know when you are ovulating. These kits check for luteinizing hormone (LH)
in the urine. You can buy them without a prescription at most drug stores.

There are various other methods to help detect when you are most likely to be
able to conceive a baby.

Note: Some lubricants can interfere with conception. If you are trying to get
pregnant, you should avoid all douches and lubricants (including saliva),
except those specifically designed to not interfere with fertility (such as
Pre-seed). Lubricants should never be used as a method of birth control.

EVALUATING YOUR CERVICAL FLUID

Cervical fluid protects the sperm and helps it move toward the uterus and
fallopian tubes. Cervical fluid changes occur when the woman's body is getting
ready to release an egg. There are clear differences in how it looks and feels
during the woman's monthly menstrual cycle.

    * No cervical fluid is present during the menstrual period.
    * After the period is over, the vagina is dry and no cervical fluid is present.
    * Fluid then turns to a sticky/rubbery fluid.
    * The fluid becomes very wet/creamy/white which indicates FERTILE.
    * The fluid becomes slippery, stretchy, and clear like an egg white, which means VERY FERTILE.
    * After ovulation, the vagina becomes dry again (no cervical fluid). The cervical mucus may become more like thick bubble gum. 

You can use your fingers to see how your cervical fluid feels.

    * Find the fluid inside the lower end of the vagina.
    * Tap your thumb and first finger together -- if the fluid stretches while you spread your thumb and finger apart, this could mean ovulation is near. 

TAKING YOUR BASAL BODY TEMPERATURE

After you ovulate, your body temperature will rise and stay at a higher level
for the rest of your ovulation cycle. At the end of your cycle, it falls
again. The difference between the 2 phases is most often less than 1 degree.

    * You can use a special thermometer to take your temperature in the morning before you get out of bed.
    * Use a glass basal thermometer or a digital thermometer that is accurate to the tenth of a degree.
    * Keep the thermometer in your mouth for 5 minutes or until it signals you that it is done. Try not to move too much, as activity can raise your body temperature slightly. 

If your temperature is between 2 marks, record the lower number. Try to take
your temperature at the same time every day, if possible.

Create a chart and write down your temperature every day. If you look at a
complete cycle, you will probably notice a point at which the temperatures
become higher than in the first part of your cycle. The rise is about 0.2
degrees or more above the previous 6 days.

Temperature is a useful indicator of fertility. After checking for several
cycles, you may be able to see a pattern and identify your most fertile days.

## Alternative Names

Basal body temperature; Infertility - fertile days

## Images

    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Lobo RA. Infertility: etiology, diagnostic evaluation, management, prognosis.
In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

Rebar RW, Catherino WH. Reproductive endocrinology and infertility. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 236.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Preconception
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PreconceptionCare_thumb.jpg)Preconception
Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

