Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000948.htm    
                                Description: If you are trying to get pregnant, you may want to know what you can do to help ensure a healthy pregnancy and baby. Here are some questions you may want to ask your doctor about getting pregnant.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Questions to ask your doctor about getting pregnant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000948.htm

# Questions to ask your doctor about getting pregnant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you are trying to get pregnant, you may want to know what you can do to
help ensure a healthy pregnancy and baby. Here are some questions you may want
to ask your doctor about getting pregnant.

## Questions

At what age is it easiest to get pregnant?

    * When during my menstrual cycle will I be able to get pregnant?
    * If I am on birth control pills, how soon after I stop taking them should I begin trying to get pregnant?
    * How long do I need to be off the pill before I can conceive? What about other forms of birth control?
    * How long does it take to get pregnant naturally?
    * Will I get pregnant on my first attempt?
    * How frequently do we need to have sex to conceive successfully?
    * At what age am I less likely to get pregnant naturally? 

Will my health affect my chances of getting pregnant?

    * Will the medicines I am taking affect my chances of getting pregnant?
    * Are there any medicines I should stop taking?
    * Should I wait if I had a surgery or radiation treatment recently?
    * Do STDs (sexually transmitted diseases) interfere with pregnancy?
    * Do I need to get treatment for STDs before pregnancy?
    * Do I need any medical tests or vaccines before trying to conceive?
    * Will mental stressor other mental health conditions affect my chances of pregnancy? 

Do we need genetic counseling?

    * What are the chances of our baby inheriting the condition that runs in the family?
    * Do we need to get any tests done? 

Are there any lifestyle changes I should make?

    * Can I continue consuming alcohol or smoking while trying to conceive?
    * Do smoking or consuming alcohol affect my chances of getting pregnant or my baby?
    * Do I need to stop exercising?
    * Will making any changes to my diet help me get pregnant?
    * What are prenatal vitamins? Why do I need them?
    * When should I start taking them? How long do I need to take them? 

Will my weight affect my chances of getting pregnant? If so, how?

    * If I am overweight, do I need to reduce my weight?
    * If I am underweight, do I need to gain weight before trying to conceive? 

Does my partner's health affect my chances of getting pregnant or the health
of the baby?

    * Do we need to wait if he had a surgery or a radiation treatment recently?
    * Are there any lifestyle changes he should make to help us become pregnant?
    * I have been trying to get pregnant for some time without success. Should we get examined for infertility? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor - pregnancy; What to ask your doctor - conception;
Questions - infertility

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Before pregnancy.
www.cdc.gov/preconception/index.html. Updated October 17, 2019. Accessed
October 22, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Trouble getting pregnant.
www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/trouble.html. Updated August 25, 2015. Accessed March
23, 2018.

Stotland NE, Bodnar LM, Abrams B. Maternal Nutrition. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R,
Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Peter J. Chen, MD, FACOG, Associate Professor of OBGYN at Cooper
Medical School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update 10/22/2019.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Preconception Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

