

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Chlamydial Infections

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydial Infections in Adolescents and Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydial Infections Among Neonates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydial Infections Among Infants and Children

###  Chlamydial Infections in Adolescents and Adults

Chlamydial infection is the most frequently reported infectious disease in the
United States, and prevalence is highest in persons aged ≤24 years ( _118_ ).
Several sequelae can result from _C. trachomatis_ infection in women, the most
serious of which include PID, ectopic pregnancy, and infertility. Some women
who receive a diagnosis of uncomplicated cervical infection already have
subclinical upper-reproductive-tract infection.

Asymptomatic infection is common among both men and women. To detect
chlamydial infections, health-care providers frequently rely on screening
tests. Annual screening of all sexually active women aged <25 years is
recommended, as is screening of older women at increased risk for infection
(e.g., those who have a new sex partner, more than one sex partner, a sex
partner with concurrent partners, or a sex partner who has a sexually
transmitted infection ( _108_ ). Although CT incidence might be higher in some
women aged ≥25 years in some communities, overall the largest burden of
infection is among women aged <25 years.

Chlamydia screening programs have been demonstrated to reduce the rates of PID
in women ( _497,498_ ). Although evidence is insufficient to recommend routine
screening for _C. trachomatis_ in sexually active young men because of several
factors (e.g., feasibility, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness), the screening
of sexually active young men should be considered in clinical settings with a
high prevalence of chlamydia (e.g., adolescent clinics, correctional
facilities, and STD clinics) or in populations with high burden of infection
(e.g., MSM) _(108,121)_. Among women, the primary focus of chlamydia screening
efforts should be to detect chlamydia, prevent complications, and test and
treat their partners, whereas targeted chlamydia screening in men should only
be considered when resources permit, prevalence is high, and such screening
does not hinder chlamydia screening efforts in women ( _499,500_ ). More
frequent screening for some women (e.g., adolescents) or certain men (e.g.,
MSM) might be indicated.

####  Diagnostic Considerations

_C. trachomatis_ urogenital infection can be diagnosed in women by testing
first-catch urine or collecting swab specimens from the endocervix or vagina.
Diagnosis of _C. trachomatis_ urethral infection in men can be made by testing
a urethral swab or first-catch urine specimen. NAATs are the most sensitive
tests for these specimens and therefore are recommended for detecting _C.
trachomatis_ infection ( _394_ ). NAATs that are FDA-cleared for use with
vaginal swab specimens can be collected by a provider or self-collected in a
clinical setting. Self-collected vaginal swab specimens are equivalent in
sensitivity and specificity to those collected by a clinician using NAATs (
_501,502_ ), and women find this screening strategy highly acceptable (
_503,504_ ). Optimal urogenital specimen types for chlamydia screening using
NAAT include first catch-urine (men) and vaginal swabs (women) ( _394_ ).
Rectal and oropharyngeal _C. trachomatis_ infection in persons engaging in
receptive anal or oral intercourse can be diagnosed by testing at the anatomic
site of exposure. NAATs are not FDA-cleared for use with rectal or
oropharyngeal swab specimens. However, NAATs have been demonstrated to have
improved sensitivity and specificity compared with culture for the detection
of _C. trachomatis_ at rectal sites ( _505-507_ ) and at oropharyngeal sites
among men ( _505-508_ ). Some laboratories have established CLIA-defined
performance specifications when evaluating rectal and oropharyngeal swab
specimens for _C. trachomatis,_ thereby allowing results to be used for
clinical management. Most persons with _C. trachomatis_ detected at
oropharyngeal sites do not have oropharyngeal symptoms. However, when
gonorrhea testing is performed at the oropharyngeal site, chlamydia test
results might be reported as well because some NAATs detect both bacteria from
a single specimen. Data indicate that performance of NAATs on self-collected
rectal swabs is comparable to clinician-collected rectal swabs, and this
specimen collection strategy for rectal _C. trachomatis_ screening is highly
acceptable ( _509-511_ ). Self-collected rectal swabs are a reasonable
alternative to clinician-collected rectal swabs for _C. trachomatis_ screening
by NAAT, especially when clinicians are not available or when self collection
is preferred over clinician collection. Previous evidence suggests that the
liquid-based cytology specimens collected for Pap smears might be acceptable
specimens for NAAT testing, although test sensitivity using these specimens
might be lower than that associated with use of cervical or vaginal swab
specimens ( _512_ ); regardless, certain NAATs have been FDA-cleared for use
on liquid-based cytology specimens.

####  Treatment

Treating persons infected with _C. trachomatis_ prevents adverse reproductive
health complications and continued sexual transmission, and treating their sex
partners can prevent reinfection and infection of other partners. Treating
pregnant women usually prevents transmission of _C. trachomatis_ to neonates
during birth. Chlamydia treatment should be provided promptly for all persons
testing positive for infection; treatment delays have been associated with
complications (e.g., PID) in a limited proportion of women ( _513_ ).

##### _Recommended Regimens_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Azithromycin** 1 g orally in a single dose  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Doxycycline** 100 mg orally twice a day for 7 days

##### _Alternative Regimens_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** base 500 mg orally four times a day for 7 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** ethylsuccinate 800 mg orally four times a day for 7 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Levofloxacin** 500 mg orally once daily for 7 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Ofloxacin** 300 mg orally twice a day for 7 days

A meta-analysis of 12 randomized clinical trials of azithromycin versus
doxycycline for the treatment of urogenital chlamydial infection demonstrated
that the treatments were equally efficacious, with microbial cure rates of 97%
and 98%, respectively ( _514_ ). These studies were conducted primarily in
populations with urethral and cervical infection in which follow-up was
encouraged, adherence to a 7-day regimen was effective, and culture or EIA
(rather than the more sensitive NAAT) was used for determining microbiological
outcome. More recent retrospective studies have raised concern about the
efficacy of azithromycin for rectal _C. trachomatis_ infection ( _515,516_),
however, these studies have limitations, and prospective clinical trials
comparing azithromycin versus doxycycline regimens for rectal _C. trachomatis_
infection are needed.

Although the clinical significance of oropharyngeal _C. trachomatis_ infection
is unclear and routine oropharyngeal screening for CT is not recommended,
available evidence suggests oropharyngeal _C. trachomatis_ can be sexually
transmitted to genital sites ( _152,517_); therefore, detection of _C.
trachomatis_ from an oropharyngeal specimen should be treated with
azithromycin or doxycycline. The efficacy of alternative antimicrobial
regimens in resolving oropharyngeal chlamydia remains unknown.

In a double-blinded randomized control trial, a doxycycline delayed-release
200 mg tablet administered daily for 7 days was as effective as generic
doxycycline 100 mg twice daily for 7 days for treatment of urogenital _C.
trachomatis_ infection in men and women and had a lower frequency of
gastrointestinal side effects. However, this regimen is more costly than those
that involve multiple daily doses ( _518_ ). Delayed-release doxycycline
(Doryx) 200 mg daily for 7 days might be an alternative regimen to the
doxycycline 100 mg twice daily for 7 days for treatment of urogenital _C.
trachomatis_ infection. Erythromycin might be less efficacious than either
azithromycin or doxycycline, mainly because of the frequent occurrence of
gastrointestinal side effects that can lead to nonadherence with treatment.
Levofloxacin and ofloxacin are effective treatment alternatives, but they are
more expensive and offer no advantage in the dosage regimen. Other quinolones
either are not reliably effective against chlamydial infection or have not
been evaluated adequately.

#### Other Management Considerations

To maximize adherence with recommended therapies, onsite, directly observed
single-dose therapy with azithromycin should always be available for persons
for whom adherence with multiday dosing is a concern. In addition, for
multidose regimens, the first dose should be dispensed on site and directly
observed. To minimize disease transmission to sex partners, persons treated
for chlamydia should be instructed to abstain from sexual intercourse for 7
days after single-dose therapy or until completion of a 7-day regimen and
resolution of symptoms if present. To minimize risk for reinfection, patients
also should be instructed to abstain from sexual intercourse until all of
their sex partners are treated. Persons who receive a diagnosis of chlamydia
should be tested for HIV, GC, and syphilis.

####  Follow-Up

Test-of-cure to detect therapeutic failure (i.e., repeat testing 3-4 weeks
after completing therapy) is not advised for persons treated with the
recommended or alterative regimens, unless therapeutic adherence is in
question, symptoms persist, or reinfection is suspected. Moreover, the use of
chlamydial NAATs at <3 weeks after completion of therapy is not recommended
because the continued presence of nonviable organisms ( _394,395,519_) can
lead to false-positive results.

A high prevalence of _C. trachomatis_ infection has been observed in women and
men who were treated for chlamydial infection during the preceding several
months ( _480,481,520-522_). Most post-treatment infections do not result from
treatment failure, but rather from reinfection caused by failure of sex
partners to receive treatment or the initiation of sexual activity with a new
infected partner, indicating a need for improved education and treatment of
sex partners. Repeat infections confer an elevated risk for PID and other
complications in women. Men and women who have been treated for chlamydia
should be retested approximately 3 months after treatment, regardless of
whether they believe that their sex partners were treated ( _480,481_ ). If
retesting at 3 months is not possible, clinicians should retest whenever
persons next present for medical care in the 12-month period following initial
treatment.

#### Management of Sex Partners

Sex partners should be referred for evaluation, testing, and presumptive
treatment if they had sexual contact with the partner during the 60 days
preceding the patient's onset of symptoms or chlamydia diagnosis. Although the
exposure intervals defined for the identification of at-risk sex partners are
based on limited data, the most recent sex partner should be evaluated and
treated, even if the time of the last sexual contact was >60 days before
symptom onset or diagnosis.

Among heterosexual patients, if health department partner management
strategies (e.g., disease intervention specialists) are impractical or not
available for persons with chlamydia and a provider is concerned that sex
partners are unable to promptly access evaluation and treatment services, EPT
should be considered as permitted by law (see Partner Services). Compared with
standard patient referral of partners, this approach to therapy, which
involves delivering the medication itself or a prescription, has been
associated with decreased rates of persistent or recurrent chlamydia ( _93-95_
). Providers should also provide patients with written educational materials
to give to their partner(s) about chlamydia in general, to include
notification that partner(s) have been exposed and information about the
importance of treatment. These materials also should inform partners about
potential therapy-related allergies and adverse effects, along with symptoms
suggestive of complications (e.g., testicular pain in men and pelvic or
abdominal pain in women). EPT is not routinely recommended for MSM with
chlamydia because of a high risk for coexisting infections (especially
undiagnosed HIV) among their partners, and because data are limited regarding
the effectiveness of this approach in reducing persistent or recurrent
chlamydia among MSM. Having partners accompany patients when they return for
treatment is another strategy that has been used to ensure partner treatment
(See Partner Services). To avoid reinfection, sex partners should be
instructed to abstain from sexual intercourse until they and their sex
partners have been adequately treated (i.e., for 7 days after a single-dose
regimen or after completion of a 7-day regimen) and have resolved any
symptoms.

####  Special Considerations

##### Pregnancy

Doxycycline is contraindicated in the second and third trimesters of
pregnancy. Human data suggest ofloxacin and levofloxacin present a low risk to
the fetus during pregnancy, with a potential for toxicity during
breastfeeding; however, data from animal studies raise concerns about
cartilage damage to neonates ( _317_ ). Thus, alternative drugs should be used
to treat chlamydia in pregnancy. Clinical experience and published studies
suggest that azithromycin is safe and effective ( _523-525_ ). Test-of-cure to
document chlamydial eradication (preferably by NAAT) 3-4 weeks after
completion of therapy is recommended because severe sequelae can occur in
mothers and neonates if the infection persists. In addition, all pregnant
women who have chlamydial infection diagnosed should be retested 3 months
after treatment. Detection of _C. trachomatis_ infection at repeat screening
during the third semester is not uncommon in adolescent and young adult women,
including in those without _C. trachomatis_ detected at the time of initial
prenatal screening ( _526,527_ ). Women aged <25 years and those at increased
risk for chlamydia (e.g., those who have a new sex partner, more than one sex
partner, a sex partner with concurrent partners, or a sex partner who has a
sexually transmitted infection) should be rescreened during the third
trimester to prevent maternal postnatal complications and chlamydial infection
in the infant ( _108_ ).

##### _Recommended Regimens_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Azithromycin** 1 g orally in a single dose

##### _Alternative Regimens_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Amoxicillin** 500 mg orally three times a day for 7 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** base 500 mg orally four times a day for 7 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** base 250 mg orally four times a day for 14 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** ethylsuccinate 800 mg orally four times a day for 7 days  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** ethylsuccinate 400 mg orally four times a day for 14 days

Because of concerns about chlamydia persistence following exposure to
penicillin-class antibiotics that has been demonstrated in animal and in vitro
studies, amoxicillin is now considered an alternative therapy for _C.
trachomatis_ in pregnant women ( _528,529_ ). The frequent gastrointestinal
side effects associated with erythromycin can result in nonadherence with
these alternative regimens. The lower dose 14-day erythromycin regimens can be
considered if gastrointestinal tolerance is a concern. Erythromycin estolate
is contraindicated during pregnancy because of drug-related hepatotoxicity.

##### HIV Infection

Persons who have chlamydia and HIV infection should receive the same treatment
regimen as those who do not have HIV infection. For more information, see
Chlamydia, Treatment.

 Top of Page

###  Chlamydial Infections Among Neonates

Prenatal screening and treatment of pregnant women is the best method for
preventing chlamydial infection among neonates. _C. trachomatis_ infection of
neonates results from perinatal exposure to the mother's infected cervix.
Although the efficacy of neonatal ocular prophylaxis with erythromycin
ophthalmic ointments to prevent chlamydia ophthalmia is not clear, ocular
prophylaxis with these agents prevents gonococcal ophthalmia and therefore
should be administered (see Ophthalmia Neonatorum Caused by _N.
gonnorrhoeae)._

Initial _C. trachomatis_ neonatal infection involves the mucous membranes of
the eye, oropharynx, urogenital tract, and rectum, although infection might be
asymptomatic in these locations. Instead, _C. trachomatis_ infection in
neonates is most frequently recognized by conjunctivitis that develops 5-12
days after birth. _C. trachomatis_ also can cause a subacute, afebrile
pneumonia with onset at ages 1-3 months. Although _C. trachomatis_ has been
the most frequent identifiable infectious cause of ophthalmia neonatorum,
neonatal chlamydial infections (including ophthalmia and pneumonia) have
occurred less frequently since the institution of widespread prenatal
screening and treatment of pregnant women.

####  Ophthalmia Neonatorum Caused by _C. trachomatis_  

A chlamydial etiology should be considered for all infants aged ≤30 days that
have conjunctivitis, especially if the mother has a history of chlamydia
infection. These infants should receive evaluation and appropriate care and
treatment.

##### Diagnostic Considerations

Sensitive and specific methods used to diagnose chlamydial ophthalmia in the
neonate include both tissue culture and nonculture tests (e.g., direct
fluorescence antibody [DFA] tests and NAAT). DFA is the only nonculture FDA-
cleared test for the detection of chlamydia from conjunctival swabs; NAATs are
not FDA-cleared for the detection of chlamydia from conjunctival swabs, and
clinical laboratories must verify the procedure according to CLIA regulations.
Specimens for culture isolation and nonculture tests should be obtained from
the everted eyelid using a dacron-tipped swab or the swab specified by the
manufacturer's test kit; for culture and DFA, specimens must contain
conjunctival cells, not exudate alone. Ocular specimens from neonates being
evaluated for chlamydial conjunctivitis also should be tested for _N.
gonorrhoeae_ (see Ophthalmia Neonatorum Caused by _N. gonnorrhoeae_ ).

##### _Treatment of Ophthalmia Neonatorum_

##### _Recommended Regimen_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** base or ethylsuccinate 50 mg/kg/day orally divided into 4 doses daily for 14 days*

##### _Alternative Regimen_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Azithromycin** suspension, 20 mg/kg/day orally, 1 dose daily for 3 days*

*An association between oral erythromycin and azithromycin and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) has been reported in infants aged <6 weeks. Infants treated with either of these antimicrobials should be followed for signs and symptoms of IHPS.

Although data on the use of azithromycin for the treatment of neonatal
chlamydia infection are limited, available data suggest a short course of
therapy might be effective ( _530_ ). Topical antibiotic therapy alone is
inadequate for treatment for ophthalmia neonatorum caused by chlamydia and is
unnecessary when systemic treatment is administered.

##### Follow-Up

Because the efficacy of erythromycin treatment for ophthalmia neonatorum is
approximately 80%, a second course of therapy might be required ( _531_ ).
Data on the efficacy of azithromycin for ophthalmia neonatorum are limited.
Therefore, follow-up of infants is recommended to determine whether initial
treatment was effective. The possibility of concomitant chlamydial pneumonia
should be considered (see Infant Pneumonia Caused by _C. trachomatis_ ).

##### Management of Mothers and Their Sex Partners

Mothers of infants who have ophthalmia caused by chlamydia and the sex
partners of these women should be evaluated and presumptively treated for
chlamydia. For more information, see Chlamydial Infection in Adolescents and
Adults.

####  Infant Pneumonia Caused by _C. trachomatis_  

Chlamydia pneumonia in infants typically occurs at 1-3 months and is a
subacute pneumonia. Characteristic signs of chlamydial pneumonia in infants
include 1) a repetitive staccato cough with tachypnea and 2) hyperinflation
and bilateral diffuse infiltrates on a chest radiograph. In addition,
peripheral eosinophilia (≥400 cells/mm3) occurs frequently. Because clinical
presentations differ, all infants aged 1-3 months suspected of having
pneumonia (especially those whose mothers have a history of chlamydial
infection) should be tested for _C. trachomatis_ and treated if infected.

##### Diagnostic Considerations

Specimens for chlamydial testing should be collected from the nasopharynx.
Tissue culture is the definitive standard diagnostic test for chlamydial
pneumonia. Nonculture tests (e.g., DFA and NAAT) can be used. DFA is the only
nonculture FDA-cleared test for the detection of _C. trachomatis_ from
nasopharyngeal specimens, but DFA of nasopharyngeal specimens has a lower
sensitivity and specificity than culture. NAATs are not FDA-cleared for the
detection of chlamydia from nasopharyngeal specimens, and clinical
laboratories must verify the procedure according to CLIA regulations ( _394_
). Tracheal aspirates and lung biopsy specimens, if collected, should be
tested for _C. trachomatis_.

##### Treatment

Because test results for chlamydia often are not available at the time that
initial treatment decisions must be made, treatment for _C. trachomatis_
pneumonia must frequently be based on clinical and radiologic findings, age of
the infant (i.e., 1-3 months), and risk of chlamydia in the mother (i.e., age
<25, multiple partners, and history of chlamydial infection). The results of
tests for chlamydial infection assist in the management of an infant's
illness.

##### _Recommended Regimen_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** base or ethylsuccinate 50 mg/kg/day orally divided into 4 doses daily for 14 days

##### _Alternative Regimen_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Azithromycin** 20 mg/kg/day orally, 1 dose daily for 3 days

##### Follow-Up

Because the effectiveness of erythromycin in treating pneumonia caused by _C.
trachomatis_ is approximately 80%, a second course of therapy might be
required ( _532_ ). Data on the effectiveness of azithromycin in treating
chlamydial pneumonia are limited. Follow-up of infants is recommended to
determine whether the pneumonia has resolved, although some infants with
chlamydial pneumonia continue to have abnormal pulmonary function tests later
in childhood.

##### Management of Mothers and Their Sex Partners

Mothers of infants who have chlamydia pneumonia and the sex partners of these
women should be evaluated, tested, and presumptively treated for chlamydia.
For more information, see Chlamydial Infection in Adolescents and Adults.

#### Neonates Born to Mothers Who Have Chlamydial Infection

Neonates born to mothers who have untreated chlamydia are at high risk for
infection; however, prophylactic antibiotic treatment is not indicated, as the
efficacy of such treatment is unknown. Infants should be monitored to ensure
appropriate treatment if symptoms develop.

 Top of Page

###  Chlamydial Infections Among Infants and Children

Sexual abuse must be considered a cause of chlamydial infection in infants and
children. However, perinatally transmitted _C. trachomatis_ infection of the
nasopharynx, urogenital tract, and rectum might persist for 2-3 years (see
Sexual Assault or Abuse of Children).

#### Diagnostic Considerations

NAAT can be used for vaginal and urine specimens from girls (see Sexual
Assault or Abuse of Children), although data are insufficient to recommend the
use of NAAT in boys. Data also are lacking regarding use of NAAT for specimens
from extragenital sites (rectum and pharynx) in boys and girls ( _394_ );
other nonculture tests (e.g., DFA) are not recommended because of specificity
concerns. Culture is still the preferred method for detection of urogenital
_C. trachomatis_ in boys and at extragenital sites in boys and girls.

##### _Recommended Regimen for Infants and Children Who Weigh <45 kg_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Erythromycin** base or ethylsuccinate 50 mg/kg/day orally divided into 4 doses daily for 14 days

Data are limited on the effectiveness and optimal dose of azithromycin for the
treatment of chlamydial infection in infants and children who weigh <45 kg

##### _Recommended Regimen for Children Who Weigh ≥45 kg but Who Are Aged <8
Years_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Azithromycin** 1 g orally in a single dose

##### _Recommended Regimens for Children Aged ≥8 years_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Azithromycin** 1 g orally in a single dose  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Doxycycline** 100 mg orally twice a day for 7 days

#### Other Management Considerations

See Sexual Assault or Abuse of Children.

#### Follow-Up

A test-of-cure culture (repeat testing after completion of therapy) to detect
therapeutic failure ensures treatment effectiveness. Therefore, this culture
with should be obtained at a follow-up visit approximately 2 weeks after
treatment is completed.

 Top of Page



Next

Page last reviewed: June 4, 2015

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home 2015 STD Treatment Guidelines

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction and Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Prevention Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Special Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emerging Issues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV Infection: Detection,Counseling and Referral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases Characterized by Genital, Anal, or Perianal Ulcers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chancroid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genital HSV Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Granuloma Inguinale (Donovanosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lymphogranuloma Venereum (LGV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syphilis During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Management of Persons Who Have a History of Penicillin Allergy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases Characterized by Urethritis and Cervicitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydial Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases Characterized by Vaginal Discharge expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bacterial Vaginosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vulvovaginal Candidiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epididymitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anogenital Warts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HPV-Associated Cancers and Precancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proctitis, Proctocolitis, and Enteritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ectoparasitic Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sexual Assault and Abuse and STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Terms and Abbreviations Used in This Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Consultants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evidence Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening Recommendations Referenced in Treatment Guidelines and Original Recommendation Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Questions and Answers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HPV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Mycoplasma genitalium_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sexual Assault
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trichomoniasis

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

