Link: https://medlineplus.gov/autoimmunediseases.html    
                                Description: Autoimmune diseases are where your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Learn about the symptoms, tests, and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Autoimmune Diseases

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/autoimmunediseases.html

#  Autoimmune Diseases

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your body's immune system protects you from disease and infection. But if you
have an autoimmune disease, your immune system attacks healthy cells in your
body by mistake. Autoimmune diseases can affect many parts of the body.

No one is sure what causes autoimmune diseases. They do tend to run in
families. Women - particularly African-American, Hispanic-American, and
Native-American women - have a higher risk for some autoimmune diseases.

There are more than 80 types of autoimmune diseases, and some have similar
symptoms. This makes it hard for your health care provider to know if you
really have one of these diseases, and if so, which one. Getting a diagnosis
can be frustrating and stressful. Often, the first symptoms are fatigue,
muscle aches and a low fever. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is
inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain and swelling.

The diseases may also have flare-ups, when they get worse, and remissions,
when symptoms get better or disappear. Treatment depends on the disease, but
in most cases one important goal is to reduce inflammation. Sometimes doctors
prescribe corticosteroids or other drugs that reduce your immune response.

## Start Here

    * Autoimmune Diseases (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding Autoimmune Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Autoantibodies (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Blood Test: Immunoglobulin A (IgA) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Complement Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Immunofixation (IFE) Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Immunoglobulins Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pharmacogenetic Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Associated Autoimmune Diseases (Gluten Intolerance Group)

## Specifics

    * Autoimmune Hepatitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Autoimmune Lymphoproliferative Syndrome (ALPS) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Autoinflammatory Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Familial Mediterranean Fever (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Goodpasture Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Learning about Antiphospholipid Syndrome (APS) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * Neuromyelitis Optica ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Paraneoplastic Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Primary Biliary Cholangitis (Primary Biliary Cirrhosis) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Stiff-Person Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * What Is Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: immune dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: otulipenia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Shaking Out Clues to Autoimmune Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Study Provides Insights into Diagnosis, Treatment of Rare Immune Disease: Autoimmmune Lymphoproliferative Syndrome (ALPS) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Autoimmune Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hereditary Autoinflammatory Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Polymorphism of toll-like receptor genes and autoimmune endocrine diseases.
    * Article: MECHANISMS IN ENDOCRINOLOGY: Autoimmune hypopituitarism: novel mechanistic insights.
    * Article: Estrogen, estrogen-like molecules and autoimmune diseases.
    * Autoimmune Diseases -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Overview of the Immune System ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Find an Expert

    * American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association
    * American College of Rheumatology
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * What Is a Pediatric Rheumatologist? (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Immune System (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Pregnancy and Rheumatic Disease (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Autoimmune disorders (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Complement (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Autoimmune Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Antinuclear antibody panel
    * Antithyroid microsomal antibody
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Autoimmune hepatitis
    * Autoimune liver disease panel
    * C-reactive protein
    * Complement
    * Complement component 3 (C3)
    * Complement component 4
    * ESR
    * Familial Mediterranean fever
    * Goodpasture syndrome
    * Lambert-Eaton Syndrome
    * Synovial biopsy

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Addison Disease
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Guillain-Barre Syndrome
    * Lupus
    * Multiple Sclerosis
    * Myasthenia Gravis
    * Rheumatoid Arthritis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Autoimmune Diseases is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 23 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 22 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

