

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Chlamydia

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Chlamydia - CDC Fact Sheet (Detailed)

Minus

Related Pages

Basic Fact Sheet | **Detailed Version**

Detailed fact sheets are intended for physicians and individuals with specific
questions about sexually transmitted diseases. Detailed fact sheets include
specific testing and treatment recommendations as well as citations so the
reader can research the topic more in depth.

### What is chlamydia?

Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by infection
with _Chlamydia trachomatis_. It can cause cervicitis in women and urethritis
and proctitis in both men and women. Chlamydial infections in women can lead
to serious consequences including pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), tubal
factor infertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pelvic pain.
Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV), another type of STD caused by different
serovars of the same bacterium, occurs commonly in the developing world, and
has more recently emerged as a cause of outbreaks of proctitis among men who
have sex with men (MSM) worldwide.1,2

### How common is chlamydia?

Chlamydia is the most frequently reported bacterial sexually transmitted
infection in the United States.3 In 2018, 1,758,668 cases of chlamydia were
reported to CDC from 50 states and the District of Columbia,3 but an estimated
2.86 million infections occur annually.4 A large number of cases are not
reported because most people with chlamydia are asymptomatic and do not seek
testing. Chlamydia is most common among young people. Almost two-thirds of new
chlamydia infections occur among youth aged 15-24 years.4 It is estimated that
1 in 20 sexually active young women aged 14-24 years has chlamydia.5

Substantial racial/ethnic disparities in chlamydial infection exist, with
prevalence among non-Hispanic blacks 5.6 times the prevalence among non-
Hispanic whites.3 Chlamydia is also common among men who have sex with men
(MSM). Among MSM screened for rectal chlamydial infection, positivity has
ranged from 3.0% to 10.5%.6,7 Among MSM screened for pharyngeal chlamydial
infection, positivity has ranged from 0.5% to 2.3%.7.8

### How do people get chlamydia?

Chlamydia is transmitted through sexual contact with the penis, vagina, mouth,
or anus of an infected partner. Ejaculation does not have to occur for
chlamydia to be transmitted or acquired. Chlamydia can also be spread
perinatally from an untreated mother to her baby during childbirth, resulting
in ophthalmia neonatorum (conjunctivitis) or pneumonia in some exposed
infants. In published prospective studies, chlamydial conjunctivitis has been
identified in 18-44% and chlamydial pneumonia in 3-16% of infants born to
women with untreated chlamydial cervical infection at the time of
delivery.9-12 While rectal or genital chlamydial infection has been shown to
persist one year or longer in infants infected at birth,13 the possibility of
sexual abuse should be considered in prepubertal children beyond the neonatal
period with vaginal, urethral, or rectal chlamydial infection.

People who have had chlamydia and have been treated may get infected again if
they have sexual contact with a person infected with chlamydia.14

### Who is at risk for chlamydia?

Any sexually active person can be infected with chlamydia. It is a very common
STD, especially among young people.3 It is estimated that 1 in 20 sexually
active young women aged 14-24 years has chlamydia.5

Sexually active young people are at high risk of acquiring chlamydia for a
combination of behavioral, biological, and cultural reasons. Some young people
don't use condoms consistently.15 Some adolescents may move from one
monogamous relationship to the next more rapidly than the likely infectivity
period of chlamydia, thus increasing risk of transmission.16 Teenage girls and
young women may have cervical ectopy (where cells from the endocervix are
present on the ectocervix).17 Cervical ectopy may increase susceptibility to
chlamydial infection. The higher prevalence of chlamydia among young people
also may reflect multiple barriers to accessing STD prevention services, such
as lack of transportation, cost, and perceived stigma.16-20

Men who have sex with men (MSM) are also at risk for chlamydial infection
since chlamydia can be transmitted by oral or anal sex. Among MSM screened for
rectal chlamydial infection, positivity has ranged from 3.0% to 10.5%.6.7
Among MSM screened for pharyngeal chlamydial infection, positivity has ranged
from 0.5% to 2.3%.7.8

### What are the symptoms of chlamydia?

Chlamydia is known as a 'silent' infection because most infected people are
asymptomatic and lack abnormal physical examination findings. Estimates of the
proportion of chlamydia-infected people who develop symptoms vary by setting
and study methodology; two published studies that incorporated modeling
techniques to address limitations of point prevalence surveys estimated that
only about 10% of men and 5-30% of women with laboratory-confirmed chlamydial
infection develop symptoms.21.22 The incubation period of chlamydia is poorly
defined. However, given the relatively slow replication cycle of the organism,
symptoms may not appear until several weeks after exposure in those persons
who develop symptoms.

In women, the bacteria initially infect the cervix, where the infection may
cause signs and symptoms of cervicitis (e.g., mucopurulent endocervical
discharge, easily induced endocervical bleeding), and sometimes the urethra,
which may result in signs and symptoms of urethritis (e.g., pyuria, dysuria,
urinary frequency). Infection can spread from the cervix to the upper
reproductive tract (i.e., uterus, fallopian tubes), causing pelvic
inflammatory disease (PID), which may be asymptomatic ("subclinical PID")23 or
acute, with typical symptoms of abdominal and/or pelvic pain, along with signs
of cervical motion tenderness, and uterine or adnexal tenderness on
examination.

Men who are symptomatic typically have urethritis, with a mucoid or watery
urethral discharge and dysuria. A minority of infected men develop
epididymitis (with or without symptomatic urethritis), presenting with
unilateral testicular pain, tenderness, and swelling.24

Chlamydia can infect the rectum in men and women, either directly (through
receptive anal sex), or possibly via spread from the cervix and vagina in a
woman with cervical chlamydial infection.25, 26 While these infections are
often asymptomatic, they can cause symptoms of proctitis (e.g., rectal pain,
discharge, and/or bleeding).26-28

Sexually acquired chlamydial conjunctivitis can occur in both men and women
through contact with infected genital secretions.29

While chlamydia can also be found in the throats of women and men having oral
sex with an infected partner, it is typically asymptomatic and not thought to
be an important cause of pharyngitis.26

### What complications can result from chlamydial infection?

The initial damage that chlamydia causes often goes unnoticed. However,
chlamydial infections can lead to serious health problems with both short- and
long-term consequences.

In women, untreated chlamydia can spread into the uterus or fallopian tubes
and cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Symptomatic PID occurs in about
10 to 15 percent of women with untreated chlamydia.30,31 However, chlamydia
can also cause subclinical inflammation of the upper genital tract
("subclinical PID"). Both acute and subclinical PID can cause permanent damage
to the fallopian tubes, uterus, and surrounding tissues. The damage can lead
to chronic pelvic pain, tubal factor infertility, and potentially fatal
ectopic pregnancy.32,33

Some patients with chlamydial PID develop perihepatitis, or "Fitz-Hugh-Curtis
Syndrome", an inflammation of the liver capsule and surrounding peritoneum,
which is associated with right upper quadrant pain.

In pregnant women, untreated chlamydia has been associated with pre-term
delivery,34 as well as ophthalmia neonatorum (conjunctivitis) and pneumonia in
the newborn.

Reactive arthritis can occur in men and women following symptomatic or
asymptomatic chlamydial infection, sometimes as part of a triad of symptoms
(with urethritis and conjunctivitis) formerly referred to as Reiter's
Syndrome.35

### What about chlamydia and HIV?

Untreated chlamydia may increase a person's chances of acquiring or
transmitting HIV - the virus that causes AIDS.36

### How does chlamydia affect a pregnant woman and her baby?

In pregnant women, untreated chlamydia has been associated with pre-term
delivery,34 as well as ophthalmia neonatorum (conjunctivitis) and pneumonia in
the newborn. In published prospective studies, chlamydial conjunctivitis has
been identified in 18-44% and chlamydial pneumonia in 3-16% of infants born to
women with untreated chlamydial cervical infection at the time of
delivery.9-12 Neonatal prophylaxis against gonococcal conjunctivitis routinely
performed at birth does not effectively prevent chlamydial
conjunctivitis.37-39

Screening and treatment of chlamydia in pregnant women is the best method for
preventing neonatal chlamydial disease. All pregnant women should be screened
for chlamydia at their first prenatal visit. Pregnant women under 25 and those
at increased risk for chlamydia (e.g., women who have a new or more than one
sex partner) should be screened again in their third trimester. Pregnant women
with chlamydial infection should be retested 3 weeks and 3 months after
completion of recommended therapy.40

### Who should be tested for chlamydia?

Any sexually active person can be infected with chlamydia. Anyone with genital
symptoms such as discharge, burning during urination, unusual sores, or rash
should refrain from having sex until they are able to see a health care
provider about their symptoms.

Also, anyone with an oral, anal, or vaginal sex partner who has been recently
diagnosed with an STD should see a health care provider for evaluation.

Because chlamydia is usually asymptomatic, screening is necessary to identify
most infections. Screening programs have been demonstrated to reduce rates of
adverse sequelae in women.31,41 CDC recommends yearly chlamydia screening of
all sexually active women younger than 25, as well as older women with risk
factors such as new or multiple partners, or a sex partner who has a sexually
transmitted infection.40 Pregnant women under 25 or older pregnant women at
increased risk for chlamydia (e.g., women who have a new or more than one sex
partner) should be screened during their first prenatal visit and again during
their third trimester.40 Women diagnosed with chlamydial infection should be
retested approximately 3 months after treatment.40 Any woman who is sexually
active should discuss her risk factors with a health care provider who can
then determine if more frequent screening is necessary.

Routine screening is not recommended for men. However, the screening of
sexually active young men should be considered in clinical settings with a
high prevalence of chlamydia (e.g., adolescent clinics, correctional
facilities, and STD clinics) when resources permit and do not hinder screening
efforts in women.40

Sexually active men who have sex with men (MSM) who had insertive intercourse
should be screened for urethral chlamydial infection and MSM who had receptive
anal intercourse should be screened for rectal infection at least annually;
screening for pharyngeal infection is not recommended.. More frequent
chlamydia screening at 3-month intervals is indicated for MSM, including those
with HIV infection, if risk behaviors persist or if they or their sexual
partners have multiple partners.40

At the initial HIV care visit, providers should test all sexually active
persons with HIV infection for chlamydia and perform testing at least annually
during the course of HIV care. A patient's health care provider might
determine more frequent screening is necessary, based on the patient's risk
factors.42

### How is chlamydia diagnosed?

There are a number of diagnostic tests for chlamydia, including nucleic acid
amplification tests (NAATs), cell culture, and others. NAATs are the most
sensitive tests, and can be performed on easily obtainable specimens such as
vaginal swabs (either clinician- or patient-collected) or urine.43

Vaginal swabs, either patient- or clinician-collected, are the optimal
specimen to screen for genital chlamydia using NAATs in women; urine is the
specimen of choice for men, and is an effective alternative specimen type for
women.43 Self-collected vaginal swab specimens perform at least as well as
other approved specimens using NAATs.44 In addition, patients may prefer self-
collected vaginal swabs or urine-based screening to the more invasive
endocervical or urethral swab specimens.45 Adolescent girls may be
particularly good candidates for self-collected vaginal swab- or urine-based
screening because pelvic exams are not indicated if they are asymptomatic.

Chlamydial culture can be used for rectal or pharyngeal specimens, but is not
widely available. NAATs have demonstrated improved sensitivity and specificity
compared with culture for the detection of _C. trachomatis_ at non-genital
sites46-48 Most tests, including NAATs, are not FDA-cleared for use with
rectal or pharyngeal swab specimens; however, NAATS have demonstrated improved
sensitivity and specificity compared with culture for the detection of _C.
trachomatis_ at rectal sites46-48  and however, some laboratories have met
regulatory requirements and have validated NAAT testing on rectal and
pharyngeal swab specimens.

### What is the treatment for chlamydia?

Chlamydia can be easily cured with antibiotics. HIV-positive persons with
chlamydia should receive the same treatment as those who are HIV-negative.

Persons with chlamydia should abstain from sexual activity for 7 days after
single dose antibiotics or until completion of a 7-day course of antibiotics,
to prevent spreading the infection to partners. It is important to take all of
the medication prescribed to cure chlamydia. Medication for chlamydia should
not be shared with anyone. Although medication will cure the infection, it
will not repair any permanent damage done by the disease. If a person's
symptoms continue for more than a few days after receiving treatment, he or
she should return to a health care provider to be reevaluated.

Repeat infection with chlamydia is common.49 Women whose sex partners have not
been appropriately treated are at high risk for re-infection. Having multiple
chlamydial infections increases a woman's risk of serious reproductive health
complications, including pelvic inflammatory disease and ectopic
pregnancy.50,51 Women and men with chlamydia should be retested about three
months after treatment of an initial infection, regardless of whether they
believe that their sex partners were successfully treated.40

Infants infected with chlamydia may develop ophthalmia neonatorum
(conjunctivitis) and/or pneumonia.10 Chlamydial infection in infants can be
treated with antibiotics.

### What about partners?

If a person has been diagnosed and treated for chlamydia, he or she should
tell all recent anal, vaginal, or oral sex partners (all sex partners within
60 days before the onset of symptoms or diagnosis) so they can see a health
care provider and be treated. This will reduce the risk that the sex partners
will develop serious complications from chlamydia and will also reduce the
person's risk of becoming re-infected. A person with chlamydia and all of his
or her sex partners must avoid having sex until they have completed their
treatment for chlamydia (i.e., seven days after single dose antibiotics or
until completion of a seven-day course of antibiotics) and until they no
longer have symptoms. For tips on talking to partners about sex and STD
testing, visit www.gytnow.org/talking-to-your-partner/external icon

To help get partners treated quickly, healthcare providers in some states may
give infected individuals extra medicine or prescriptions to give to their sex
partners. This is called expedited partner therapy or EPT. In published
clinical trials comparing EPT to traditional patient referral (i.e., asking
the patient to refer their partners in for treatment), EPT was associated with
fewer persistent or recurrent chlamydial infections in the index patient, and
a larger reported number of partners treated.52 For providers, EPT represents
an additional strategy for partner management of persons with chlamydial
infection; partners should still be encouraged to seek medical evaluation,
regardless of whether they receive EPT. To obtain further information
regarding EPT, including the legal status of EPT in a specific area, see the
Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy.

### How can chlamydia be prevented?

Latex male condoms, when used consistently and correctly, can reduce the risk
of getting or giving chlamydia.53 The surest way to avoid chlamydia is to
abstain from vaginal, anal, and oral sex, or to be in a long-term mutually
monogamous relationship with a partner who has been tested and is known to be
uninfected.

### Where can I get more information?

![National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers, STD Clinical
Consultation Network](/std/images/logos/SCCNbutton.jpg)external icon

Health care providers with STD consultation requests can contact the STD
Clinical Consultation Network (STDCCN). This service is provided by the
National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers and operates five
days a week. STDCCN is convenient, simple, and free to health care providers
and clinicians. More information is available at www.stdccn.orgexternal icon.

Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP)  
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  
www.cdc.gov/std

CDC-INFO Contact Center  
1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636)  
TTY: (888) 232-6348  
Contact CDC-INFO

CDC National Prevention Information Network (NPIN)  
P.O. Box 6003  
Rockville, MD 20849-6003  
1-800-458-5231  
1-888-282-7681 Fax  
1-800-243-7012 TTY  
E-mail: npin-info@cdc.gov

American Sexual Health Association (ASHA)external icon  
P.O. Box 13827  
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-3827  
1-800-783-987

**References**

1\. O'Farrell N, Morison L, Moodley P, et al. Genital ulcers and concomitant
complaints in men attending a sexually transmitted infections clinic:
implications for sexually transmitted infections management. Sexually
transmitted diseases 2008;35:545-9.

2\. White JA. Manifestations and management of lymphogranuloma venereum.
Current opinion in infectious diseases 2009;22:57-66.

3\. CDC. Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance, 2018. Atlanta, GA:
Department of Health and Human Services; October 2019.

4\. Satterwhite CL et al, Sexually transmitted infections among US women and
men: prevalence and incidence estimates, 2008. STD 2013 Mar;40(30):187-93

5\. Torrone E, Papp J, Weinstock H. Prevalence of _Chlamydia trachomatis_
Genital Infection Among Persons Aged 14-39 Years -- United States, 2007-2012\.
_MMWR_ 2014;63:834-8.

6\. Marcus JL, Bernstein KT, Stephens SC, et al. Sentinel surveillance of
rectal chlamydia and gonorrhea among males-San Francisco, 2005-2008. Sexually
transmitted diseases 2010;37:59-61.

7\. Pinsky L, Chiarilli DB, Klausner JD, et al. Rates of asymptomatic
nonurethral gonorrhea and chlamydia in a population of university men who have
sex with men. Journal of American college health : J of ACH 2012;60:481-4.

8\. Park J, Marcus JL, Pandori M, Snell A, Philip SS, Bernstein KT. Sentinel
surveillance for pharyngeal chlamydia and gonorrhea among men who have sex
with men-San Francisco, 2010. Sexually transmitted diseases 2012;39:482-4.

9\. Frommell GT, Rothenberg R, Wang S, McIntosh K. Chlamydial infection of
mothers and their infants. The Journal of pediatrics 1979;95:28-32.

10\. Hammerschlag MR, Chandler JW, Alexander ER, English M, Koutsky L.
Longitudinal studies on chlamydial infections in the first year of life.
Pediatric infectious disease 1982;1:395-401.

11\. Heggie AD, Lumicao GG, Stuart LA, Gyves MT. _Chlamydia trachomatis_
infection in mothers and infants. A prospective study. American journal of
diseases of children (1960) 1981;135:507-11.

12\. Schachter J, Grossman M, Sweet RL, Holt J, Jordan C, Bishop E.
Prospective study of perinatal transmission of _Chlamydia trachomatis_. JAMA :
the journal of the American Medical Association 1986;255:3374-7.

13\. Bell TA, Stamm WE, Wang SP, Kuo CC, Holmes KK, Grayston JT. Chronic
_Chlamydia trachomatis_ infections in infants. JAMA : the journal of the
American Medical Association 1992;267:400-2.

14\. Batteiger BE, Tu W, Ofner S, et al. Repeated _Chlamydia trachomatis_
genital infections in adolescent women. The Journal of infectious diseases
2010;201:42-51.

15\. Eaton DK, Kann L, Kinchen S, et al. Youth risk behavior surveillance -
United States, 2011. Morbidity and mortality weekly report Surveillance
summaries (Washington, DC : 2002) 2012;61:1-162.

16\. Kraut-Becher JR, Aral SO. Gap length: an important factor in sexually
transmitted disease transmission. Sexually transmitted diseases 2003;30:221-5.

17\. Singer A. The uterine cervix from adolescence to the menopause. British
journal of obstetrics and gynaecology 1975;82:81-99.

18\. Cunningham SD, Kerrigan DL, Jennings JM, Ellen JM. Relationships between
perceived STD-related stigma, STD-related shame and STD screening among a
household sample of adolescents. Perspectives on sexual and reproductive
health 2009;41:225-30.

19\. Elliott BA, Larson JT. Adolescents in mid-sized and rural communities:
foregone care, perceived barriers, and risk factors. The Journal of adolescent
health : official publication of the Society for Adolescent Medicine
2004;35:303-9.

20\. Tilson EC, Sanchez V, Ford CL, et al. Barriers to asymptomatic screening
and other STD services for adolescents and young adults: focus group
discussions. BMC public health 2004;4:21.

21\. Farley TA, Cohen DA, Elkins W. Asymptomatic sexually transmitted
diseases: the case for screening. Preventive medicine 2003;36:502-9.

22\. Korenromp EL, Sudaryo MK, de Vlas SJ, et al. What proportion of episodes
of gonorrhoea and chlamydia becomes symptomatic? International journal of STD
& AIDS 2002;13:91-101.

23\. Wiesenfeld HC, Sweet RL, Ness RB, Krohn MA, Amortegui AJ, Hillier SL.
Comparison of acute and subclinical pelvic inflammatory disease. Sexually
transmitted diseases 2005;32:400-5.

24\. Berger RE, Alexander ER, Monda GD, Ansell J, McCormick G, Holmes KK.
_Chlamydia trachomatis_ as a cause of acute "idiopathic" epididymitis. The New
England journal of medicine 1978;298:301-4.

25\. Barry PM, Kent CK, Philip SS, Klausner JD. Results of a program to test
women for rectal chlamydia and gonorrhea. Obstetrics and gynecology
2010;115:753-9.

26\. Jones RB, Rabinovitch RA, Katz BP, et al. _Chlamydia trachomatis_ in the
pharynx and rectum of heterosexual patients at risk for genital infection.
Annals of internal medicine 1985;102:757-62.

27\. Quinn TC, Goodell SE, Mkrtichian E, et al. _Chlamydia trachomatis_
proctitis. The New England journal of medicine 1981;305:195-200.

28\. Thompson CI, MacAulay AJ, Smith IW. _Chlamydia trachomatis_ infections in
the female rectums. Genitourinary medicine 1989;65:269-73.

29\. Kalayoglu MV. Ocular chlamydial infections: pathogenesis and emerging
treatment strategies. Current drug targets Infectious disorders 2002;2:85-91.

30\. Haggerty CL, Gottlieb SL, Taylor BD, Low N, Xu F, Ness RB. Risk of
sequelae after _Chlamydia trachomatis_ genital infection in women. The Journal
of infectious diseases 2010;201 Suppl 2:S134-55.

31\. Oakeshott P, Kerry S, Aghaizu A, et al. Randomized controlled trial of
screening for _Chlamydia trachomatis_ to prevent pelvic inflammatory disease:
the POPI (prevention of pelvic infection) trial. BMJ (Clinical research ed)
2010;340:c1642.

32\. Cates W, Jr., Wasserheit JN. Genital chlamydial infections: epidemiology
and reproductive sequelae. American journal of obstetrics and gynecology
1991;164:1771-81.

33\. Westrom L, Joesoef R, Reynolds G, Hagdu A, Thompson SE. Pelvic
inflammatory disease and fertility. A cohort study of 1,844 women with
laparoscopically verified disease and 657 control women with normal
laparoscopic results. Sexually transmitted diseases 1992;19:185-92.

34\. Rours GI, Duijts L, Moll HA, et al. _Chlamydia trachomatis_ infection
during pregnancy associated with preterm delivery: a population-based
prospective cohort study. European journal of epidemiology 2011;26:493-502.

35\. Carter JD, Inman RD. Chlamydia-induced reactive arthritis: hidden in
plain sight? Best practice & research Clinical rheumatology 2011;25:359-74.

36\. Fleming DT, Wasserheit JN. From epidemiological synergy to public health
policy and practice: the contribution of other sexually transmitted diseases
to sexual transmission of HIV infection. Sexually transmitted infections
1999;75:3-17.

37\. Bell TA, Sandstrom KI, Gravett MG, et al. Comparison of ophthalmic silver
nitrate solution and erythromycin ointment for prevention of natally acquired
Chlamydia trachomatis. Sexually transmitted diseases 1987;14:195-200.

38\. Chen JY. Prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum: comparison of silver
nitrate, tetracycline, erythromycin and no prophylaxis. The Pediatric
infectious disease journal 1992;11:1026-30.

39\. Isenberg SJ, Apt L, Wood M. A controlled trial of povidone-iodine as
prophylaxis against ophthalmia neonatorum. The New England journal of medicine
1995;332:562-6.

40\. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Treatment Guidelines, 2015. _MMWR_ , 64(RR-3) (2015).

41\. Scholes D, Stergachis A, Heidrich FE, Andrilla H, Holmes KK, Stamm WE.
Prevention of pelvic inflammatory disease by screening for cervical chlamydial
infection. The New England journal of medicine 1996;334:1362-6.

42\. CDC. Incorporating HIV prevention into the medical care of persons living
with HIV. Recommendations of CDC, the Health Resources and Services
Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine
Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. MMWR
Recommendations and reports : Morbidity and mortality weekly report
Recommendations and reports / Centers for Disease Control 2003;52:1-24.

43\. APHL. Laboratory Diagnostic Testing for _Chlamydia trachomatis_ and
_Neisseria gonorrhoeae._ Expert Consultation Meeting Summary Report. January
13-15, 2009. Atlanta, GA.

44\. Schachter J, Chernesky MA, Willis DE, et al. Vaginal swabs are the
specimens of choice when screening for _Chlamydia trachomatis_ and _Neisseria
gonorrhoeae_ : results from a multicenter evaluation of the APTIMA assays for
both infections. Sexually transmitted diseases 2005;32:725-8.

45\. Doshi JS, Power J, Allen E. Acceptability of chlamydia screening using
self-taken vaginal swabs. International journal of STD & AIDS 2008;19:507-9.

46\. Bachmann LH, Johnson RE, Cheng H, et al. Nucleic acid amplification tests
for diagnosis of _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ and _Chlamydia trachomatis_ rectal
infections. Journal of clinical microbiology 2010;48:1827-32.

47\. Mimiaga MJ, Mayer KH, Reisner SL, et al. Asymptomatic gonorrhea and
chlamydial infections detected by nucleic acid amplification tests among
Boston area men who have sex with men. Sexually transmitted diseases
2008;35:495-8.

48\. Schachter J, Moncada J, Liska S, Shayevich C, Klausner JD. Nucleic acid
amplification tests in the diagnosis of chlamydial and gonococcal infections
of the oropharynx and rectum in men who have sex with men. Sexually
transmitted diseases 2008;35:637-42.

49\. Hosenfeld CB, Workowski KA, Berman S, et al. Repeat infection with
Chlamydia and gonorrhea among females: a systematic review of the literature.
Sexually transmitted diseases 2009;36:478-89.

50\. Hillis SD, Owens LM, Marchbanks PA, Amsterdam LF, Mac Kenzie WR.
Recurrent chlamydial infections increase the risks of hospitalization for
ectopic pregnancy and pelvic inflammatory disease. American journal of
obstetrics and gynecology 1997;176:103-7.

51\. Bakken IJ, Skjeldestad FE, Lydersen S, Nordbo SA. Births and ectopic
pregnancies in a large cohort of women tested for _Chlamydia trachomatis_.
Sexually transmitted diseases 2007;34:739-43.

52\. Trelle S, Shang A, Nartey L, Cassell JA, Low N. Improved effectiveness of
partner notification for patients with sexually transmitted infections:
systematic review. BMJ (Clinical research ed) 2007;334:354.

53\. Holmes KK, Levine R, Weaver M. Effectiveness of condoms in preventing
sexually transmitted infections. Bulletin of the World Health Organization
2004;82:454-61.



Page last reviewed: October 4, 2016

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Chlamydia

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Screening Data, HEDIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Resources expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chlamydia Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reproductive Health

**Find an STD testing site near you.**

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

