Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002694.htm    
                                Description: Cologne is a scented liquid made from alcohol and essential oils. Cologne poisoning occurs when someone swallows cologne. This can be by accident or on purpose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cologne poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002694.htm

# Cologne poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cologne is a scented liquid made from alcohol and essential oils. Cologne
poisoning occurs when someone swallows cologne. This can be by accident or on
purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

These ingredients in cologne can be poisonous:

      * Ethyl alcohol (ethanol)
      * Isopropyl alcohol (isopropanol)

There may be other poisonous ingredients in cologne.

## Where Found

These alcohols are found in various types of cologne.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of poisoning from cologne may include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Anxiety
      * Decreased level of consciousness, including coma (lack of responsiveness)
      * Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting (may be bloody)
      * Dizziness
      * Headache
      * Trouble walking normally
      * Low body temperature, low blood sugar, and low blood pressure
      * Too little or too much urine output
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Seizures (convulsions)
      * Slowed breathing
      * Slurred speech
      * Stupor
      * Swaying from side to side
      * Throat pain
      * Uncoordinated movement 

Children are especially prone to developing low blood sugar. Symptoms of low
blood sugar can include:

      * Confusion
      * Irritability
      * Nausea
      * Sleepiness
      * Weakness 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Bring the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and breathing machine (ventilator)
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Chest x-ray
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Laxative
      * Medicine to treat symptoms
      * Tube through the nose into the stomach if vomiting blood

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on the amount of cologne swallowed and how
quickly treatment is received. The faster medical help is given, the better
the chance for recovery.

Cologne poisoning may make a personÂ appearÂ as ifÂ they areÂ drunk. It can
also cause severe breathing problems, seizures, and coma. A product with a lot
of isopropyl alcohol could cause a more serious illness.

## References

Caraccio TR, McFee RB. Cosmetics and toilet articles. In: Shannon MW, Borron
SW, Burns MJ, eds. _Haddad and Winchester's Clinical Management of Poisoning
and Drug Overdose_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2007:chap
100.

Jacobsen D, Hovda KE. Methanol, ethylene glycol, and other toxic alcohols. In:
Shannon MW, Borron SW, Burns MJ, eds. _Haddad and Winchester's Clinical
Management of Poisoning and Drug Overdose_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2007:chap 32.

Mycyk MB. Toxic alcohols. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency Medicine_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 151.

Nelson ME. Toxic alcohols. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 141.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

