Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002666.htm    
                                Description: Mouthwash overdose occurs when someone uses more than the normal or recommended amount of this substance. This can be by accident or on purpose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mouthwash overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002666.htm

# Mouthwash overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mouthwash overdose occurs when someone uses more than the normal or
recommended amount of this substance. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The ingredients in mouthwash that can be harmful in large amounts are:

      * Chlorhexidine gluconate
      * Ethanol (ethyl alcohol)
      * Hydrogen peroxide
      * Methyl salicylate

## Where Found

Many brands of mouthwash contain the ingredients listed above.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a mouthwash overdose include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Burns and damage to the clear covering of the front of the eye (if it gets in the eye)
      * Coma
      * Diarrhea
      * Dizziness
      * Drowsiness
      * Headache
      * Low body temperature
      * Low blood pressure
      * Low blood sugar
      * Nausea
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Rapid, shallow breathing
      * Skin redness and pain
      * Slowed breathing
      * Slurred speech
      * Throat pain
      * Uncoordinated movement
      * Unconsciousness
      * Unresponsive reflexes
      * Urination problems (too much or too little urine)
      * Vomiting (may contain blood)

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States.Â This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may done include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Endoscopy -- camera down the throat to look for burns in the esophagus and stomach

Treatment may include:

      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms  

      * Activated charcoal
      * Laxative
      * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)
      * Kidney dialysis (kidney machine) (in serious cases)  

The person may be admitted to the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on the amount of mouthwash that was swallowed
and how quickly treatment is received. The faster medical help is given, the
better the chance for recovery.

Drinking large amounts of mouthwash may cause symptoms similar to drinking
large amounts of alcohol (drunkenness). Swallowing large amounts of methyl
salicylate and hydrogen peroxide may also cause serious stomach and intestine
symptoms. It can also lead to changes in the body's acid-base balance.

## Alternative Names

Listerine overdose; Antiseptic mouth rinse overdose

## References

Hoyte C. Caustics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 148.

Ling LJ. The alcohols: ethylene glycol, methanol, isopropyl alcohol, and
alcohol-related complications. In: Markovchick VJ, Pons PT, Bakes KM, Buchanan
JA, eds. _Emergency Medicine Secrets_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 70.

Nelson ME. Toxic alcohols. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 141.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

