

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of Human _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to
"Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers" from Schreiber Processing Corporation (Final
Update)

Minus

Related Pages

NOTICE: This outbreak is over. The information on this page has been archived
for historical purposes only and will not be updated.

Posted January 11, 2012

### Outbreak Summary

CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in New York, New
Jersey, other states, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and
Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
investigate a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Heidelberg infections linked
to a kosher chicken liver product labeled as "kosher broiled chicken livers,"
which is not ready-to-eat and requires further cooking before eating. Public
health investigators used DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_ bacteria obtained
through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to
identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data
from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local
public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that
performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. Because the
_Salmonella_ Heidelberg PFGE pattern associated with this outbreak commonly
occurs in the United States, some of the cases with this pattern may not have
been related to this outbreak. Based on the previous 5 years of reports to
PulseNet, approximately 30-40 cases with the outbreak strain would be expected
to be reported per month in the United States. The outbreak strain is
different from another strain of _Salmonella_ Heidelberg associated with
ground turkey recalled in 2011.

In August 2011, CDC identified a sustained increase in the number of
_Salmonella_ Heidelberg isolates with the outbreak strain reported to PulseNet
from New York and New Jersey. Based on the previous 5 years of reports to
PulseNet, New York and New Jersey would expect approximately 5 cases per
month, but in June through August 2011, these states experienced approximately
30-40 cases a month. No sustained increase in the number of illnesses above
baseline has been identified in other states. USDA-FSIS's ongoing
investigation determined that the "kosher broiled chicken livers" were
distributed to the following states: New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Minnesota, Ohio, Rhode Island, and Florida. As the investigation
progresses, additional states may be identified.

In cases reported to PulseNet from April 1 to November 17, 2011, a total of
190 illnesses occurred due to _Salmonella_ Heidelberg with this PFGE pattern
in states where the "kosher broiled chicken livers" were distributed. The
number of ill persons identified in each state the product was distributed to
is as follows: New York (109), New Jersey (62), Pennsylvania (10), Maryland
(6), Ohio (2), and Minnesota (1). Rhode Island and Florida have not identified
any cases linked to this outbreak during this period.

Among persons for whom information is available in in these states, ill
persons ranged in age from <1 to 97 years with a median age of 14 years.
Forty-nine percent were female. Among the 154 ill persons with available
information, 30 (19%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported.

The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
people who became ill each day or week. This chart is called an epi curve.
This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting
Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic and laboratory investigations conducted by officials in local,
state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked
this outbreak to eating "kosher broiled chicken livers" from Schreiber
Processing Corporation (doing business as Alle Processing Corporation/MealMart
Company), and chopped chicken liver prepared from this product. These "kosher
broiled chicken livers" are sold at retail stores and may be used as an
ingredient in other prepared foods. These products appear to be ready-to-eat,
but are in fact partially cooked, and therefore need to be fully cooked before
eating. Consumers may have incorrectly thought the use of the word "broiled"
in the label meant the chicken liver was ready-to-eat; however, these chicken
livers must be fully cooked before eating. Alle Processing
Corporation/MealMart Company cooperated with public health investigators
throughout this investigation.

Among 39 ill persons for whom information is available, 28 (72%) reported
consuming chicken liver products in the week before their illness began.
Laboratory testing conducted by the New York State Department of Agriculture
and Markets Laboratory Division identified the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Heidelberg in samples of "kosher broiled chicken livers" and chopped liver
products obtained from retail stores.  

New York City receives funding under the CDC FoodCORE (Foodborne Diseases
Centers for Outbreak Response Enhancement) program. FoodCORE sites are
supported in part by USDA-FSIS and the Association of Public Health
Laboratories. These sites work together to develop new and better methods to
detect, investigate, respond to, and control multistate outbreaks of foodborne
diseases. New York City conducted an enhanced epidemiologic investigation,
which resulted in the identification of suspect food items that might have
been a source of this outbreak. These suspect food items were collected for
testing and the outbreak strain was found in "kosher broiled chicken liver"
products.

### Recall Information

On November 8, 2011, Schreiber Processing Corporation, of Maspeth, New York,
announced a recallExternal of an undetermined amount of "kosher broiled
chicken liver" products.

### Clinical Features/Signs and Symptoms

Most persons infected with _Salmonella_ bacteria develop diarrhea, fever, and
abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. The illness usually lasts 4
to 7 days, and most persons recover without treatment. However, in some
persons, the diarrhea may be so severe that the patient needs to be
hospitalized. _Salmonella_ infection may spread from the intestines to the
bloodstream and then to other body sites and can cause death unless the person
is treated promptly with antibiotics. Older adults, infants, and those with
impaired immune systems are more likely to have a severe illness from
_Salmonella_ infection.

### Advice to Consumers, Retailers, and Others

This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, _Salmonella_ is still an
important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about
_Salmonella_ , and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection,
can be found on the CDC _Salmonella_ Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web
Page.

Consumers might still have recalled products in their homes if the "kosher
broiled chicken livers" or foods made with "kosher broiled chicken livers"
were frozen.

**Cook chicken liver to the proper temperature:**

                    * Consumers should not eat chicken liver or any foods prepared with chicken liver that have not been fully cooked to an internal temperature of 165°F.
                    * Restaurants and food service operators should fully cook chicken liver to an internal temperature of 165°F.  
                    * If served undercooked chicken liver in a restaurant, send it back to the kitchen for further cooking.
                    * If repackaging partially cooked chicken livers for sale, retailers should clearly label them as not ready-to-eat, and therefore, require further cooking before eating.

**Be careful in preparing foods:**

                    * Separate raw livers and other uncooked meats from produce, cooked foods, and ready-to-eat foods to avoid cross contamination.
                    * Wash **** hands, kitchen work surfaces, cutting boards, knives and other utensils with soap and water immediately after they have been in contact with livers or other raw meat or poultry.
                    * Disinfect the food contact surfaces using a freshly prepared solution of 1 tablespoon unscented liquid chlorine bleach to 1 gallon of water.

**Consult your health care provider:**

                    * Persons who think they might have become ill from eating undercooked chicken liver or any food prepared with chicken liver should consult their health care providers.
                    * Infants, older adults, and persons with impaired immune systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.

### Key Resources

                    * NYC Health Department Warns MealMart Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers Can Cause Illness from _Salmonella_ BacteriaExternal
                    * Prevention for Consumers: FoodSafety.govExternal
                    * AskKaren.gov (FSIS virtual representative)External
                    * 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854), USDA English/Spanish Meat and Poultry Hotline

### CDC's Role in Food Safety

As an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
CDC leads federal efforts to gather data on foodborne illnesses, investigate
foodborne illnesses and outbreaks, and monitor the effectiveness of prevention
and control efforts. CDC is not a food safety regulatory agency but works
closely with the food safety regulatory agencies, in particular with HHS's
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Food Safety and Inspection
Service within the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). CDC also
plays a key role in building state and local health department epidemiology,
laboratory, and environmental health capacity to support foodborne disease
surveillance and outbreak response. Notably, CDC data can be used to help
document the effectiveness of regulatory interventions.

### Final Epi Curve

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Heidelberg
reported to PulseNet: New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Ohio,
Minnesota, 2011

![Persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg reported
to PulseNet: New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Ohio, Minnesota,
2011](/salmonella/2011/images/chicken-livers-011112-epi.jpg)

Page last reviewed: January 11, 2012

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

