Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002745.htm    
                                Description: Toothpaste is a product used to clean teeth. This article discusses the effects of swallowing a lot of toothpaste.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toothpaste overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002745.htm

# Toothpaste overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Toothpaste is a product used to clean teeth. This article discusses the
effects of swallowing a lot of toothpaste.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Poisonous ingredients include:

      * Sodium fluoride 
      * Triclosan

## Where Found

Ingredients are found in:

      * Various toothpastes

## Symptoms

Swallowing a large amount of regular toothpaste may cause stomach pain and
possible intestinal blockage.

These additional symptoms may occur when swallowing a large amount of
toothpaste containing fluoride:

      * Convulsions
      * Diarrhea
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Drooling
      * Heart attack
      * Salty or soapy taste in the mouth
      * Slow heart rate
      * Shock
      * Tremors
      * Vomiting
      * Weakness

## Home Care

DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a
health care professional. Seek immediate medical help.

If the product was swallowed, immediately give the person water or milk,
unless told otherwise by a health care provider. DO NOT give water or milk if
the person is having symptoms (such as vomiting, convulsions, or a decreased
level of alertness) that make it hard to swallow.

## Before Calling Emergency

Determine the following information:

      * The person's age, weight, and condition
      * The name of the product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
      * The time it was swallowed
      * The amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

If you swallow toothpaste that does not contain fluoride, you may not need to
go to the hospital.

Those who swallow a lot of fluoride toothpaste, especially if they are small
children, may need to go to the hospital emergency department.

At the emergency room, the provider will measure and monitor the person's
vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.
Blood and urine tests will be done. The person may receive:

      * Activated charcoal to prevent the rest of the poison from getting absorbed into the stomach and digestive tract.
      * Airway and breathing support, including oxygen. In extreme cases, a tube may be passed through the mouth into the lungs to prevent aspiration.Â A breathing machine (ventilator) would then be needed.
      * Calcium (an antidote), to reverse the effect of the poison.
      * Chest x-ray.
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
      * Endoscopy: a camera down the throat to see burns to the esophagus and stomach.
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms.
      * Tube through the mouth (rare) into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage). 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who swallow a very large amount of fluoride toothpaste and survive 48
hours usually recover.

Most nonfluoride toothpastes are nontoxic (nonpoisonous). People are very
likely to recover.

## Images

      * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy

## References

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Tinanoff N. Dental caries. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 312.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

