Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002739.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses the health effects that may occur from swallowing soap. This can happen by accident or on purpose. Swallowing soap does not usually cause serious problems.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swallowing soap

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002739.htm

# Swallowing soap

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses the health effects that may occur from swallowing soap.
This can happen by accident or on purpose. Swallowing soap does not usually
cause serious problems.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Most bar soaps are considered harmless (nontoxic), but some may contain
ingredients that can be harmful if they are swallowed.

## Where Found

Various bar soaps

## Symptoms

Symptoms that might occur are:

      * Diarrhea
      * Vomiting

## Home Care

DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison control or a health care
provider tells you to.

Give the person water or milk right away, unless a provider tells you not to.
DO NOT give anything to drink if the person has symptoms that make it hard to
swallow. These include vomiting, convulsions, or a decreased level of
alertness.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The person may not need to go to the emergency room.

If they do go, the provider will measure and monitor their vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated. This may include giving fluids and medicines through a vein
(IV).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People usually recover after swallowing soap.

How well someone does depends on how much soap they swallowed and how quickly
they receive medical care (if care is needed).

## Alternative Names

Soap - swallowing; Soap ingestion

## References

Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 63.

Little M. Toxicology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 29.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 10/1/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

