Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002762.htm    
                                Description: Bubble bath soap poisoning occurs when someone swallows bubble bath soap.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bubble bath soap poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002762.htm

# Bubble bath soap poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bubble bath soap poisoning occurs when someone swallows bubble bath soap.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Most bubble bath soaps are considered nonpoisonous (nontoxic).

## Symptoms

Symptoms of swallowing bubble bath soap are:

      * Diarrhea
      * Vomiting

## Home Care

DO NOT make a person throw up unless poison control or a health care provider
tells you to.

If the soap is in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

If the person swallowed the soap, give them water or milk right away, unless a
provider tells you not to. DO NOT give anything to drink if the person has
symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include vomiting, convulsions, or
a decreased level of alertness.

When bathing young children, be sure to prevent them from swallowing bubbles
or bathwater containing soap.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

A visit to the emergency room may not be needed.

If care is needed, the provider will measure and monitor the person's vital
signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.
Symptoms will be treated.

The person may receive:

      * Fluids by IV (through a vein)
      * Medicine to treat symptoms

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Since bubble bath soap is fairly nonpoisonous, recovery is very likely.

## References

Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 63.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Zosel AE. General approach to the poisoned patient. In: Adams JG, ed.
_Emergency Medicine: Clinical Essentials_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:chap 143.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

