Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002723.htm    
                                Description: This poisoning results from eating or swallowing lip moisturizers containing para-aminobenzoic acid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lip moisturizer poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002723.htm

# Lip moisturizer poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This poisoning results from eating or swallowing lip moisturizers containing
para-aminobenzoic acid.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Para-aminobenzoic acid is a naturally occurring substance that can absorb
ultraviolet (UV) light. It is often used in sunscreen products, including lip
moisturizers containing sunblocks. It is harmful in large amounts. It can also
cause an allergic reaction in some people.

## Where Found

Para-aminobenzoic acid is found in certain lip balm and moisturizers
containing a sunblock. Chapstick is one brand name.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Diarrhea
      * Eye irritation (if the product touched the eye)
      * Intestinal blockage
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Shortness of breath (with extremely high doses) 

If you have an allergy to a dye in the moisturizer, you may develop tongue and
throat swelling, wheezing, and trouble breathing.

## Home Care

DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a
health care professional.

If you have an allergic reaction, call 911 or your local emergency number.

## Before Calling Emergency

Determine the following information:

      * The person's age, weight, and condition 
      * The name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known) 
      * The time it was swallowed 
      * The amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Blood and
urine tests will be done. The person may receive:

      * Activated charcoal to prevent the poison from absorbing into the digestive tract
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms

For an allergic reaction, the person may need:

      * Airway and breathing support, including oxygen. In extreme cases, a tube may be passed through the mouth into the lungs to prevent aspiration. A breathing machine (ventilator) would then be needed.
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Medicines specifically for allergic reactions

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery is very likely. The ingredients are generally considered to be
nontoxic.

## Alternative Names

Chapstick poisoning

## References

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Poisoning. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds.
_Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

