Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002703.htm    
                                Description: Hair dye poisoning occurs when someone swallows dye or tint used to color hair.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hair dye poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002703.htm

# Hair dye poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hair dye poisoning occurs when someone swallows dye or tint used to color
hair.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Different types of hair dye contain different harmful ingredients.

The harmful ingredients in permanent dyes are:

      * Naphthylamine
      * Other aromatic amino compounds
      * Phenylenediamines
      * Toluene diamines

The harmful ingredients in temporary dyes are:

      * Arsenic
      * Bismuth
      * Denatured alcohol
      * Lead (lead poisoning)
      * Mercury
      * Pyrogallol
      * Silver

Hair dyes may contain other harmful ingredients.

## Where Found

Various hair dyes contain these ingredients.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of hair dye poisoning include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Blurred vision
      * Breathing difficulty
      * Burning pain in the throat
      * Burns to the eye, redness, and tearing
      * Collapse
      * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
      * Diarrhea (watery, bloody)
      * Low blood pressure
      * Inability to walk normally
      * No urine output
      * Rash
      * Slurred speech
      * Stupor
      * Vomiting

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to. If the chemical is on the skin
or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

If the person swallowed the hair dye, give them water or milk right away,
unless a provider tells you not to. DO NOT give anything to drink if the
person has symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include:

      * Vomiting
      * Convulsions
      * A decreased level of alertness

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will
give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

      * Blood and urine tests.
      * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs, and a breathing machine (ventilator).
      * Chest x-ray.
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
      * Endoscopy: camera placed down the throat to look for burns in the esophagus and the stomach.
      * Laxatives.
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV).
      * Medicines to treat the effects of the poison.
      * Surgery to remove burned skin (debridement).
      * Washing of the skin (irrigation), perhaps every few hours for several days.

If the poisoning is severe, the person may be admitted to the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on how much hair dye they swallowed and how
quickly they receive treatment. The faster medical help is given, the better
the chance for recovery.

Extensive damage to the mouth, throat, and stomach is possible. The outcome
depends on how much of this damage there is. Damage to the esophagus and
stomach can continue to occur for several weeks after the product is
swallowed. A hole can develop in these organs, and that can lead to severe
bleeding and infection. Surgery may be needed to treat these and other
complications.

Continued exposure to lead or mercury can lead to permanent brain and nervous
system damage.

## Alternative Names

Hair tint poisoning

## References

Wang GS, Buchanan JA. Hydrocarbons. In: Walls RM,Â Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 152.

Zosel AE. General approach to the poisoned patient. In: Adams JG, ed.
_Emergency Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap
143.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

