Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002706.htm    
                                Description: Hair straightener poisoning occurs when someone swallows products that are used to straighten hair.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hair straightener poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002706.htm

# Hair straightener poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hair straightener poisoning occurs when someone swallows products that are
used to straighten hair.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The harmful ingredients in hair straightening products are:

      * Ammonium thioglycolate (found in relaxer/straightener products that do not use lye)
      * Guanidine hydroxide (found in relaxer/straightener products that do not use lye)
      * Mineral oil
      * Polyethylene glycol
      * Sodium hydroxide (found in relaxer/straightener products that use lye)

## Where Found

Various hair straighteners contain these chemicals.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of hair straightening poisoning in different parts of the
body.

EYES, EARS, NOSE, MOUTH, AND THROAT

      * Loss of vision
      * Severe pain in the throat
      * Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue 

HEART AND BLOOD

      * Collapse
      * Low blood pressure that develops rapidly
      * Severe change in blood acid levels (leads to organ damage) 

LUNGS

      * Breathing difficulty
      * Throat swelling (may cause breathing difficulty) 

SKIN

      * Burn
      * Holes in the skin or tissues under the skin
      * Irritation 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

      * Blood in the stool
      * Burns in the food pipe (esophagus)
      * SevereÂ abdominal pain
      * Vomiting (might be bloody)

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to. If the chemical is on the skin
or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

If the person swallowed the hair straightener, give them water or milk right
away, unless a provider tells you not to. DO NOT give anything to drink if the
person has symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include:

      * Vomiting
      * Convulsions
      * A decreased level of alertness

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

      * Blood and urine tests.
      * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs, and a breathing machine (ventilator).
      * Chest x-ray.
      * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
      * Endoscopy -- camera placed down the throat to look for burns in the esophagus and the stomach.
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV).
      * Laxatives.
      * Medicines to treat the effects of the poison.
      * Surgery to remove burned skin (debridement).
      * Washing of the skin (irrigation). This may need to be done every few hours for several days.

If the poisoning is severe, the person may be admitted to the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on how much hair straightener they swallowed and
how quickly they receive treatment. The faster medical help is given, the
better the chance for recovery.

Extensive damage to the mouth, throat, and stomach is possible. The outcome
depends on how much of this damage has happened. Damage to the esophagus and
stomach can continue to occur for several weeks after the product is
swallowed. A hole can develop in these organs, and that can lead to severe
bleeding and infection.Â Surgery may be needed to treat these and other
complications.

## References

Hoyte C. Caustics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 148.

Pfau PR, Hancock SM. Foreign bodies, bezoars, and caustic ingestions. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

Zosel AE. General approach to the poisoned patient. In: Adams JG, ed.
_Emergency Medicine: Clinical Essentials_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:chap 143.

## Review Date 10/1/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

