Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002722.htm    
                                Description: This poisoning is from swallowing or breathing in (inhaling) nail polish.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nail polish poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002722.htm

# Nail polish poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This poisoning is from swallowing or breathing in (inhaling) nail polish.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Poisonous ingredients include:

      * Toluene 
      * Butyl acetate 
      * Ethyl acetate 
      * Dibutyl phthalate

## Where Found

These ingredients can be found in various fingernail polishes.

**Note:** This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of nail polish poisoning in different parts of the body.Â

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

      * Increased need to urinate

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

      * Eye irritation and possible eye damage 

GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM

      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Abdominal pain

HEART AND BLOOD CIRCULATION

      * Chest pain
      * Irregular heartbeat 

LUNGS

      * Difficulty breathing
      * Slowed breathing rate
      * Shortness of breath

NERVOUS SYSTEM

      * Drowsiness
      * Balance problems
      * Coma
      * Euphoria (high feeling)
      * Hallucinations
      * Headache
      * Seizures
      * Stupor (confusion, decreased level of consciousness)
      * Walking problems 

## Home Care

DO NOT make the person throw up. Seek immediate emergency medical care.

## Before Calling Emergency

Determine the following information:

      * The person's age, weight, and condition 
      * The name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known) 
      * The time it was swallowed 
      * The amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Blood and
urine tests will be done. Symptoms will be treated as needed. The person may
receive:

      * Airway and breathing support, including oxygen. In extreme cases, a tube may be passed through the mouth into the lungs to prevent aspiration. A breathing machine (ventilator) would then be needed.
      * Chest x-ray.
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
      * Endoscopy -- a camera down the throat to see burns in the esophagus and stomach.
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV).
      * Irrigation (washing of the skin and eyes), which may occur every few hours for several days.
      * Medicines to treat symptoms.
      * Skin debridement (surgical removal of burned skin).
      * Tube through the mouth into the stomach (rarely) to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment is received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery. Nail polish tends to come in small bottles, so
serious poisoning is unlikely if only one bottle was swallowed. However,
always seek immediate emergency medical care.

Some people sniff nail polish on purpose to get intoxicated (drunk) by the
fumes. Over time these people, as well as those working in poorly ventilated
nail salons, can develop a condition known as "painter syndrome." This is a
permanent condition that causes walking problems, speech problems, and memory
loss. Painter syndrome may also be called organic solvent syndrome, psycho-
organic syndrome, and chronic solvent encephalopathy (CSE). CSE can also cause
symptoms such as headache, fatigue, mood disturbances, sleep disorders, and
possible behavioral changes.

Sudden death is possible in some nail polish poisoning cases.

## Alternative Names

Organic solvent syndrome; Psycho-organic syndrome; Chronic solvent
encephalopathy

## References

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Wang GS, Buchanan JA. Hydrocarbons. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 152.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

