Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002693.htm    
                                Description: Cold wave lotion is a hair care product used to create permanent waves (&quot;a perm&quot;). Cold wave lotion poisoning occurs from swallowing, breathing in, or touching the lotion.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cold wave lotion poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002693.htm

# Cold wave lotion poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cold wave lotion is a hair care product used to create permanent waves ("a
perm"). Cold wave lotion poisoning occurs from swallowing, breathing in, or
touching the lotion.

This article is for information only. Do NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Thioglycolates are the poisonous ingredients in these lotions.

## Where Found

Thioglycolates are found in:

      * Hair perm (permanent) kits
      * Various cold wave lotions

Other products may also contain cold wave lotion.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of cold wave lotion poisoning in different parts of the
body.

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

      * Mouth irritation
      * Burning and redness of the eyes
      * Possibly serious damage (such as ulcers, erosions, and deep burns) to the cornea of the eyes

HEART AND BLOOD

      * Weakness due to low blood sugar

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

      * Shortness of breath

NERVOUS SYSTEM

      * Drowsiness
      * Headache
      * Seizures (convulsions)

SKIN

      * Bluish-colored lips and fingers
      * Rash (red or blistered skin)

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

      * Cramping
      * Diarrhea
      * Stomach pain
      * Vomiting

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to. If the chemical is on the skin
or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, give the person water or milk right away, if a
provider tells you to do so. Do NOT give anything to drink if the person has
symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include vomiting, convulsions, or
a decreased level of alertness. If the person breathed in the poison, move
them to fresh air right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

      * Activated charcoal
      * Blood and urine tests
      * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and breathing machine (ventilator)
      * Chest x-ray
      * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Laxative
      * Surgery to remove burned skinÂ (debridement)
      * Tube with camera down the throat and stomach to look for burns (endoscopy)
      * Washing of the skin (irrigation), perhaps every few hours for several days 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment is received. The faster medical help is given, the better
the chance for recovery.

Skin problems will clear up when use of the product is stopped. If the lotion
is swallowed, recovery normally occurs if the right treatment is received in
time.

Most home permanent kits that contain cold wave lotions are watered down to
avoid poisoning. However, some hair salons may use stronger forms that need to
be diluted before use. Exposure to this stronger cold wave lotion will cause
much more damage than the ones used at home.

## Alternative Names

Thioglycolate poisoning

## References

Caraccio TR, McFee RB. Cosmetics and toilet articles. In: Shannon MW, Borron
SW, Burns MJ, eds. _Haddad and Winchester's Clinical Management of Poisoning
and Drug Overdose_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2007:chap
100.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Contact dermatitis and drug eruptions. In:
James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In:Â Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

