Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000648.htm    
                                Description: One in five teenagers have depression at some point. Your teen may be depressed if they are feeling sad, blue, unhappy, or down in the dumps. Depression is a serious problem, even more so if these feelings    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Recognizing teen depression

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000648.htm

# Recognizing teen depression

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

One in five teenagers have depression at some point. Your teen may be
depressed if they are feeling sad, blue, unhappy, or down in the dumps.
Depression is a serious problem, even more so if these feelings have taken
over your teen's life.

## Be Aware of the Risk for Teen Depression

Your teen is more at risk for depression if:

      * Mood disorders run in your family.
      * They experience a stressful life event like a death in the family, divorcing parents, bullying, a break up with a boyfriend or girlfriend, or failing in school.
      * They have low self-esteem and are very critical of themselves.
      * Your teen is a girl. Teen girls are twice as likely as boys to have depression.
      * Your teen has trouble being social.
      * Your teen has learning disabilities.
      * Your teen has a chronic illness.
      * There are family problems or problems with their parents.

## Know the Symptoms of Depression

If your teen is depressed, you may see some of the following common symptoms
of depression. If these symptoms last for 2 weeks or longer, talk to your
teen's doctor.

      * Frequent irritability with sudden bursts of anger.
      * More sensitive to criticism.
      * Complaints of headaches, stomach aches or other body problems. Your teen may go to the nurse's office at school a lot.
      * Withdrawal from people like parents or some friends.
      * Not enjoying activities they usually like.
      * Feeling tired for much of the day.
      * Sad or blue feelings most of the time. 

Notice changes in your teen's daily routines that can be a sign of depression.
Your teen's daily routines can change when they are depressed. You may notice
that your teen has:

      * Trouble sleeping or is sleeping more than normal
      * A change in eating habits, such as not being hungry or eating more than usual
      * A hard time concentrating
      * Problems making decisions 

Changes in your teen's behavior may also be a sign of depression. They could
be having problems at home or school:

      * Drop in school grades, attendance, not doing homework
      * High-risk behaviors, such as reckless driving, unsafe sex, or shoplifting
      * Pulling away from family and friends and spends more time alone
      * Drinking or using drugs 

Teens with depression may also have:

      * Anxiety disorders
      * Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
      * Bipolar disorder
      * Eating disorders (bulimia or anorexia) 

## Bring Your Teen to a Health Care Provider

If you are worried that your teen is depressed, see a health care provider.
The provider may perform a physical exam and order blood tests to make sure
your teen does not have a medical problem.

The provider should talk to your teen about:

      * Their sadness, irritability, or loss of interest in normal activities
      * Signs of other mental health problems, such as anxiety, mania, or schizophrenia
      * Risk of suicide or other violence and whether your teen is a danger to themselves or others 

The provider should ask about drug or alcohol abuse. Depressed teens are at
risk for:

      * Heavy drinking
      * Regular marijuana (pot) smoking
      * Other drug use 

The provider may speak with other family members or your teen's teachers.
These people can often help identify signs of depression in teenagers.

Be alert to any signs of suicide plans. Notice if your teen is:

      * Giving possessions to others
      * Saying good-bye to family and friends
      * Talking about dying or committing suicide
      * Writing about dying or suicide
      * Having a personality change
      * Taking big risks
      * Withdrawing and wanting to be alone 

Call your provider or a suicide hotline right away if you are worried that
your teen is thinking about suicide. Never ignore a suicide threat or attempt.

Call 1-800-SUICIDE or 1-800-999-9999. You can call 24/7 anywhere in the United
States.

## Identify Your Teen's Depression Early

Most teenagers feel down sometimes. Having support and good coping skills
helps teens through down periods.

Talk with your teen often. Ask them about their feelings. Talking about
depression will not make the situation worse, and may help them to get help
sooner.

Get your teen professional help to deal with low moods. Treating depression
early may help them feel better sooner, and may prevent or delay future
episodes.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider, if you notice any of the following in your teen:

      * Depression is not improving or is getting worse
      * Nervousness, irritability, moodiness, or sleeplessness that is new or getting worse
      * Side effects of medicines 

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Major depressive disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:160-168.

Bostic JQ, Prince JB, Buxton DC. Child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.
In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 69.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for depression in
children and adolescents: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2016;164(5):360-366. PMID: 26858097
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26858097.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Teen Depression
      * Teen Mental Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

