Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000647.htm    
                                Description: Depression is a serious medical condition that you need help with until you feel better. Know that you are not alone. One in five teenagers will be depressed at some point. The good thing is, there are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing your depression - teens

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000647.htm

# Managing your depression - teens

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Depression is a serious medical condition that you need help with until you
feel better. Know that you are not alone. One in five teenagers will be
depressed at some point. The good thing is, there are ways to get treatment.
Learn about treatment for depression and what you can do to help yourself get
better.

## Take Part in Talk Therapy

Talk therapy can help you feel better. Talk therapy is just that. You talk
with a therapist or a counselor about how you are feeling and what you are
thinking about.

You usually see a therapist once a week. The more open you are with your
therapist about your thoughts and feelings, the more helpful the therapy can
be.

## Taking Medicine for Depression

Be involved with this decision if you can. Learn from your doctor if
depression medicine might help you feel better. Talk about it with your doctor
and parents.

If you take medicine for depression, know that:

      * It can take a few weeks to feel better after you start taking the medicine.
      * Antidepressant medicine works best if you take it every day.
      * You may need to take the medicine for at least 6 to 12 months to get the best effect and to lower the risk of depression coming back.
      * You need to talk to your doctor about how the medicine makes you feel. If it is not working enough, if it is causing any side effects, or if it is making you feel worse or suicidal, your doctor may need to change the dose or the medicine you are taking.
      * You should not stop taking your medicine on your own. If the medicine does not make you feel good, talk to your doctor. Your doctor has to help you stop the medicine slowly. Stopping it suddenly could make you feel worse. 

## Stay in Touch with Your Depression Symptoms

If you are thinking about death or suicide:

      * Talk to a friend, family member, or your doctor right away.
      * You can always get immediate help by going to the nearest emergency room or calling 1-800-SUICIDE, or 1-800-999-9999. The hotline is open 24/7. 

Talk with your parents or your doctor if you feel your depression symptoms are
getting worse. You may need a change in your treatment.

## Avoid Risky Behaviors

Risky behaviors are behaviors that can hurt you. They include:

      * Unsafe sex
      * Drinking
      * Doing drugs
      * Driving dangerously
      * Skipping school 

If you take part in risky behaviors, know that they can make your depression
worse. Take control of your behavior rather than letting it control you.

Avoid drugs and alcohol. They can make your depression worse.

Consider asking your parents to lock up or remove any guns in your home.

Spend time with friends who are positive and can support you.

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to your parents and call your doctor if you are:

      * Thinking about death or suicide
      * Feeling worse
      * Thinking about stopping your medicine 

## Alternative Names

Recognizing depression in your teen; Helping your teen with depression

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Major depressive disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:160-168.

Bostic JQ, Prince JB, Buxton DC. Child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.
In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 69.

National Institute of Mental Health website. Child and adolescent mental
health. www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/child-and-adolescent-mental-
health/index.shtml. Accessed February 12, 2019.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for depression in
children and adolescents: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2016;164(5):360-366. PMID: 26858097
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26858097.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-12-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Teen Depression
      * Teen Mental Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

