

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Genomics & Precision Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# About the Public Health Genomics and Precision Health Knowledge Base

Minus

Related Pages

Go to PHGKB

The CDC Public Health Genomics and Precision Health Knowledge Base (PHGKB) is
an online, continuously updated, searchable database of published scientific
literature, CDC resources, and other materials that address the translation of
genomics and precision health discoveries into improved health care and
disease prevention. The Knowledge Base is curated by CDC staff and is
regularly updated to reflect ongoing developments in the field. This
compendium of databases can be searched for genomics and precision health
related information on any specific topic. We will continue to add additional
features to the knowledge base and are interested in your feedback via email.

Scientific publications related to PHGKB

Database Content

CDC/NIH Web Information Database

This database includes general CDC and NIH public health information on
specific diseases and health related topics. When available, the database
displays genomic information from various CDC and NIH web pages. Users are
also encouraged to conduct searches of CDC and NIH websites for additional
information.

to the Database

CDC-authored Genomics and Precision Health Publications Database

This database contains CDC-authored scientific publications on genomics and
precision health-related topics, and includes articles on infectious diseases,
reproductive health, newborn screening, birth defects, developmental
disabilities, genetic testing, chronic diseases such as cancer and diabetes,
environmental and occupational health, laboratory methods, bioinformatics, and
statistical methods.

to the Database

Genomics & Precision Health Database

This database includes published scientific literature on evidence-based
translation of genomic and precision health discoveries into improved health
care and population health. The database features information on topics that
include reproductive health, birth defects, newborn screening, chronic
diseases such as cancer and diabetes, pharmacogenomics, and family health
history, guidelines and recommendations.

to the Database

Tier-Classified Guidelines Database

This database contains guidelines from the Genomics and Precision Health
Database, sorted according to the highest evidence tier level that could be
assigned to recommendations from each guideline. The sorting process is based
on our previous method for classifying genomic applications (described in
Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, 2014)external icon, except that
guideline documents rather than clinical scenarios are sorted according to
evidence level'

to the Database

State Public Health Genomics Programs Database

The State Public Health Genomics Programs database has information about state
public health programs and activities relevant to genomics. States have
implemented genomics applications for Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer
syndrome, Lynch Syndrome, Familial Hypercholesterolemia, newborn screening,
and more. Find relevant information from your own state or learn about what's
been accomplished in other states. You can filter results by condition and
resource type (data, programs, education, policy, tools, and general
information. You can also view the content of the database using State Public
Health Genomics Programs Map

to the Database

Pathogen Advanced Molecular Detection Database

This database includes published scientific literature, popular press
articles, tools, and databases on the emerging role of pathogen genomics and
host-pathogen interactions in infectious disease control and prevention. It
includes information on methods, evolution and pathogenicity, detection and
diagnosis, outbreaks, epidemiology and transmission, antimicrobials, and
vaccines and host-pathogen interactions. The database contains items from all
previous weekly editions of Advanced Molecular Detection Clips, as well as
from the current edition. Clips are selected weekly from a variety of sources,
including PubMed, journal tables of contents, and online media.

to the Database

GRANTOMICS

GRANTOMICS is a search engine and analysis tool for grant information
associated with published literature on evidence-based translation of genomics
discoveries into improved health care and disease prevention, and human genome
epidemiology. The literature information is from Genomics & Health Impact Scan
Database and HuGE Literature Finder Database. The grant information is
extracted from the grant data in PubMedexternal icon records and NIH
RePORTexternal icon. Grant information can be searched by disease/condition,
environmental risk factors, or gene of study and other free text, and a simple
analysis can be performed.

to the Database

Human Genome Epidemiology (HuGE) Navigator

The HuGE (Human Genome Epidemiology) Literature Finder is a search engine for
finding published scientific literature on human genome epidemiology,
including information on population prevalence of genetic variants, gene-
disease associations, and gene-gene and gene- environment interactions. The
search query can include disease/outcome, environmental factors, genes,
author's name, and affiliation. By using the filter, users can further refine
search results. The list of selected articles can be redirected to the PubMed
website to take advantage of the functionality provided by PubMed, such as
uploading to reference software.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Phenopedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genopedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HuGE Literature Finder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Variant Name Mapper

to the Database

Specialized Databases

Specialized PHGKBs are the subset databases of the overall PHGKB for specific
domains. Currently four specialized PHGKBs are available. We will make more
specialized PHGKBs in the future.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cancer PHGKB  
Diabetes PHGKB is an online, continuously updated, searchable database of
published scientific literature, CDC and NIH resources, and other materials
that address the translation of genomic discoveries into improved health care
and prevention related to diabetes. Diabetes PHGKB is a specialized database
of the overall PHGKB.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes PHGKB  
Diabetes PHGKB is an online, continuously updated, searchable database of
published scientific literature, CDC and NIH resources, and other materials
that address the translation of genomic discoveries into improved health care
and prevention related to diabetes. Diabetes PHGKB is a specialized database
of the overall PHGKB.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HLBS-PopOmics

HLBS-PopOmics is an online, continuously updated, searchable database of
published scientific literature, CDC and NIH resources, and other materials
that address the translation of genomic discoveries into improved health care
and prevention related to Heart and Vascular Diseases(H), Lung Diseases(L),
Blood Diseases(B), and Sleep Disorders(S). HLBS-PopOmics is a specialized
database of the overall PHGKB.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infectious Diseases PHGKB  
Infectious Diseases Cancer PHGKB is an online, continuously updated,
searchable database of published scientific literature, CDC and NIH resources,
and other materials that address the impact of genomics, advanced molecular
detection, and precision health technologies on the control and prevention of
infectious diseases. Infectious Diseases PHGKB is a specialized database of
the overall PHGKB.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rare Diseases PHGKB  
Rare Disease PHGKB is an online, continuously updated, searchable database of
published scientific literature, CDC and NIH resources, and other information
that address the public health impact and translation of genomic discoveries
into improved health outcomes related to rare diseases. Rare Diseases PHGKB is
a specialized database of the overall PHGKB and was developed with direct
links to the NIH Genetics and Rare Disease Information Centerexternal icon. In
the United States, a rare disease is defined as a condition that affects fewer
than 200,000 people. There may be as many as 7,000 rare diseases. Only a few
types of rare diseases are tracked when a person is diagnosed. These include
certain infectious diseases, birth defects, and cancers. It also includes the
diseases on state newborn screening tests. Browse the full list of A-Z list of
rare diseases on the NIH websiteexternal icon.

Scientific Publications Related to PHGKB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mensah GA, Yu W, Barfield WL, Clyne M, Engelgau MM, Khoury MJ. HLBS-PopOmics: an online knowledge base to accelerate dissemination and implementation of research advances in population genomics to reduce the burden of heart, lung, blood, and sleep disorders.external icon Genet Med. 2018 Sep 10. doi: 10.1038/s41436-018-0118-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genomics and Health Impact Blog Posted on November 20, 2017 by Wei Yu and Muin J. Khoury Public health genomics information is now easily accessible online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Gwinn M, Dotson WD, Green RF, Clyne M, Wulf A, Bowen S, Kolor K, Khoury MJ. A knowledge base for tracking the impact of genomics on population healthexternal icon Genet Med.2016 Dec;18(12):1312-1314
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genomics and Health Impact Blog Posted on November 4, 2015 by Muin J. Khoury and Wei Yu, Dealing with the Genomics and Health Information Overload: Introducing the CDC Public Health Genomics Knowledge Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clyne M, Schully SD, Dotson WD, Douglas MP, Gwinn M, Kolor K, Wulf A, Bowen MS, Khoury MJ. Horizon scanning for translational genomic research beyond bench to bedside.external icon Genet Med. 2014 Jan 9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dotson WD, Douglas MP, Kolor K, Stewart AC, Bowen MS, Gwinn M, Wulf A, Anders HM, Chang CQ, Clyne M, Lam TK, Schully SD, Marrone M, Feero WG, Khoury MJ. Prioritizing genomic applications for action by level of evidence: a horizon-scanning method.external icon Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Apr;95(4):394-402.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Yesupriya A, Wulf A, Hindorff LA, Dowling N, Khoury MJ, Gwinn M. GWAS Integrator: a bioinformatics tool to explore human genetic associations reported in published genome-wide association studies.external icon Eur J Hum Genet. 2011 Oct;19(10):1095-9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Clyne M, Khoury MJ, Gwinn M. Phenopedia and Genopedia: Disease-centered and Gene-centered Views of the Evolving Knowledge of Human Genetic Associationsexternal icon. Bioinformatics. 2010 Jan 1;26(1):145-6. Epub 2009 Oct 27.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Ned R, Wulf A, Liu T, Khoury MJ, Gwinn M. The need for genetic variant naming standards in published abstracts of human genetic association studies.external icon BMC Res Notes. 2009 Apr 14; 2:56.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Clyne M, Dolan SM, Yesupriya A, Wulf A, Liu T, Khoury MJ, Gwinn M. GAPscreener: an automatic tool for screening human genetic association literature in PubMed using the support vector machine technique.external icon BMC Bioinformatics. 2008 Apr 22;9:205.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Gwinn M, Clyne M, Yesupriya A, Khoury MJ. A navigator for human genome epidemiology.external icon Nat Genet. 2008 Feb;40(2):124-5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Wulf A, Liu T, Khoury MJ, Gwinn M. Gene Prospector: an evidence gateway for evaluating potential susceptibility genes and interacting risk factors for human diseases.external icon BMC Bioinformatics. 2008 Dec 8; 9:528.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Yesupriya A, Wulf A, Qu J, Gwinn M, Khoury MJ. An automatic method to generate domain-specific investigator networks using PubMed abstracts.external icon BMC Med Inform Decis Mak 2007 Jun 20;7(1):17.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yu W, Yesupriya A, Wulf A, Qu J, Khoury MJ, Gwinn M. An open source infrastructure for managing knowledge and finding potential collaborators in a domain-specific subset of PubMed, with an example from human genome epidemiology.external icon BMC Bioinformatics. 2007 Nov 9;8:436.

Page last reviewed: March 6, 2020

Content source: Office of Science (OS), Office of Genomics and Precision
Public Health

home Genomics & Precision Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hot Topics of the Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Weekly Update
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PHGKBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About PHGKB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports and Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genomics and Precision Health Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Events and Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genetics 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family Health History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genetic Counseling and Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genetic Counseling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genetic Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Evaluating Genomic Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genomics and Health Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Breast and Ovarian Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorectal Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heart Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hereditary Hemochromatosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Osteoporosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pharmacogenomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Precision Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * My Family Health History Portrait
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pathogen Genomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Genomics Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Latest Tweets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

