Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000613.htm    
                                Description: It can be hard to remember to take all of your medicines. Learn some tips to create a daily routine that helps you remember.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking medicine at home - create a routine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000613.htm

# Taking medicine at home - create a routine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It can be hard to remember to take all of your medicines. Learn some tips to
create a daily routine that helps you remember.

## Create a Daily Routine

Take medicines with activities that are part of your everyday routine. For
example:

      * Take your medicines with meals. Keep your pillbox or medicine bottles near the kitchen table. First ask your health care provider or pharmacist if you can take your medicine with food. Some medicines need to be taken when your stomach is empty.
      * Take your medicine with another daily activity that you never forget. Take them when you feed your pet or brush your teeth. 

## Find Ways to Help you Remember Your Medicines

You can:

      * Set the alarm on your clock, computer, or phone for your medicine times.
      * Create a buddy system with a friend. Arrange to make phone calls to remind each other to take medicine.
      * Have a family member stop by or call to help you remember.
      * Make a medicine chart. List each medicine and the time that you take the medicine. Leave a space so that you can check off when you take the medicine.
      * Store your medicines in the same place so it is easy to get to them. Remember to keep medicines out of reach of children. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to the provider about what to do if you:

      * Miss or forget to take your medicines
      * Have trouble remembering to take your medicines
      * Have trouble keeping track of your medicines. Your provider may be able to cut back on some of your medicines. (DO NOT cut back or stop taking any medicines on your own. Talk to your provider first.) 

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. 20 tips to help prevent
medical errors: patient fact sheet. www.ahrq.gov/patients-consumers/care-
planning/errors/20tips/index.html. Updated August 2018. Accessed September 17,
2018.

National Institute on Aging website. Safe use of medicines for older adults.
www.nia.nih.gov/health/safe-use-medicines-older-adults. Updated May 23, 2017.
Accessed September 17, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. My medicine record.
www.fda.gov/Drugs/ResourcesForYou/ucm079489.htm. Updated August 26, 2013.
Accessed September 17, 2018.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Medication Errors

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

