Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000600.htm    
                                Description: If you take a lot of different medicines, you may find it hard to keep them straight. You may forget to take your medicine, take the wrong dose, or take them at the wrong time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Keeping your medicines organized

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000600.htm

# Keeping your medicines organized

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you take a lot of different medicines, you may find it hard to keep them
straight. You may forget to take your medicine, take the wrong dose, or take
them at the wrong time.

Learn some tips to make taking all of your medicines easier.

## Create an Organizing System That Works for you

Create an organizing system to help you decrease mistakes with your medicine.
Here are some suggestions.

USE A PILL ORGANIZER

You can buy a pill organizer at the drug store or online. There are many
kinds. Ask the pharmacist to help you pick out an organizer that will work
best for you.

Things to think about when choosing a pill organizer:

      * The number of days, such as 7, 14, or 28-day size.
      * The number of compartments for each day, such as 1, 2, 3, or 4 compartments.
      * For example, if you take medicine 4 times each day, you can use a 7-day pill organizer with 4 compartments for each day (morning, noon, evening, and bedtime). Fill the pill organizer to last 7 days. Some pill organizers let you snap out one day's worth of pills. You can carry this with you if you are out all day. You can also use a different 7-day pill organizer for the 4 times of the day. Label each one with the time of day. 

USE AN AUTOMATIC PILL DISPENSER

You can buy an automatic pill dispenser online. These dispensers:

      * Hold 7 to 28 days' worth of pills.
      * Dispense pills automatically up to 4 times per day.
      * Have a blinking light and an audio alarm to remind you to take your pills.
      * Run on batteries. Change the batteries regularly.
      * Need to be filled with your medicine. You can fill it yourself, or have a trusted friend, relative, or pharmacist fill the dispenser.
      * DO NOT allow you to take the medicine out. This can be a problem if you are going out. 

USE COLOR MARKS ON YOUR MEDICINE BOTTLES

Use a color marker to label your medicines by the time of day that you take
them. For example:

      * Put a green mark on bottles of medicines that you take at breakfast.
      * Put a red mark on bottles of medicines that you take at lunch.
      * Put a blue mark on bottles of medicines that you take at dinner.
      * Put an orange mark on bottles of medicines that you take at bedtime. 

CREATE A MEDICINE RECORD

List the medicine, what time you take it, and leave a place to check off when
you take each medicine.

## Know Your Medicines

Put on the list any prescription medicines, over-the-counter drugs, and
vitamins, herbs, and supplements that you take. Include the:

      * Name of the medicine
      * Description of what it does
      * Dose
      * Times of day you take it
      * Side effects 

## Use a Regular Doctor and Pharmacist

Bring the list and your medicines in their bottles to your health care
provider appointments and when you go to the pharmacy.

      * When you know your provider and your pharmacist, you will find it easier to talk to them. You want good communication about your medicines.
      * Review your drug list with your provider or pharmacist.
      * Ask if there are any problems with taking any of your medicines together.
      * Know what to do if you miss your dose. Most of the time, you move on and take the next dose when it is due. DO NOT take a double dose. Check with your provider or pharmacist. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider when you are:

      * Not sure what to do if you missed or forgot your medicine.
      * Having trouble remembering to take your medicine.
      * Having trouble taking a lot of medicine. Your provider may be able to cut back on some of your medicine. DO NOT cut back or stop taking any medicines on your own. Talk to your provider first.

## Alternative Names

Pill organizer; Pill dispenser

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. 20 tips to help prevent
medical errors: patient fact sheet. www.ahrq.gov/patients-consumers/care-
planning/errors/20tips/index.html. Updated August 2018. Accessed September 17,
2018.

National Institute on Aging website. Safe use of medicines for older adults.
www.nia.nih.gov/health/safe-use-medicines-older-adults. Updated May 23, 2017.
Accessed September 17, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. My medicine record.
www.fda.gov/Drugs/ResourcesForYou/ucm079489.htm. Updated August 26, 2013.
Accessed September 17, 2018.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Medication Errors

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

