Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000618.htm    
                                Description: A hospital error is when there is a mistake in your medical care. Errors can be made in your:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Help prevent hospital errors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000618.htm

# Help prevent hospital errors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hospital error is when there is a mistake in your medical care. Errors can
be made in your:

      * Medicines
      * Surgery
      * Diagnosis
      * Equipment
      * Lab and other test reports 

Hospital errors are a leading cause of death. Doctors and nurses are working
to make hospital care safer.

Learn what you can do to help prevent medical errors when you are in the
hospital.

## Take an Active Part in Your Health Care

Do all you can to help you and your health care providers stay on top of your
care:

      * Share your health information with providers in the hospital. DO NOT think they already know it.
      * Know what tests are being done. Ask what the test is for, ask for test results, and ask what the results mean for your health.
      * Know what your condition is and the plan for treatment. Ask questions when you do not understand.
      * Bring a family member or friend with you to the hospital. They can help get things done if you cannot help yourself.
      * Find a primary care provider to work with you. They can help if you have a lot of health problems or if you are in the hospital. 

## If you are Having Surgery, Help Keep Yourself Safe

Go to a hospital you trust.

      * Go to a hospital that does a lot of the type of surgery you are having.
      * You want the doctors and nurses to have a lot of experience with patients like you. 

Make sure that you and your surgeon know exactly where you are getting your
operation. Have the surgeon mark on your body where they will operate.

## Decrease Your Risk for Infection

Remind family, friends, and providers to wash their hands:

      * When they enter and leave your room
      * Before and after touching you
      * Before and after using gloves
      * After using the bathroom 

## Take Charge of Your Medicines

Tell your nurse and doctor about:

      * Any allergies or side affects you have to any medicines.
      * All of the medicines, vitamins, supplements, and herbs you take. Make a list of your medicines to keep in your wallet.
      * Any medicines you brought from home. DO NOT take your own medicine unless your doctor says it is OK. Tell your nurse if you take your own medicine. 

Know about the medicine you will get in the hospital. Speak up if you think
you are getting the wrong medicine or getting a medicine at the wrong time.
Know or ask:

      * Names of the medicines
      * What each medicine does and its side effects
      * What times you should get them in the hospital 

## Help Improve Safety in the Hospital

All medicines should have a label with the name of the medicine on it. All
syringes, tubes, bags, and pill bottles should have a label. If you do not see
a label, ask your nurse what the medicine is.

Ask your nurse if you are taking any high-alert medicine. These medicines can
cause harm if they are not given the right way at the right time. A few high-
alert medicines are blood thinners, insulin, and narcotic pain medicines. Ask
what extra safety steps are being taken.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have concerns about hospital errors.

## Alternative Names

Medical errors - prevention; Patient safety - hospital errors

## References

Singer SJ, Vogus TJ. Reducing hospital errors: interventions that build safety
culture. _Annu Rev Public Health_. 2013;34:373-396. PMID: 23330698
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23330698.

The Joint Commission website. Hospital: 2019 National Patient Safety Goals.
www.jointcommission.org/hap_2017_npsgs. Updated January 1, 2018. Accessed
September 5, 2018.

Wachter RM. Quality of care and patient safety. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Medication Errors
      * Patient Safety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

