Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000501.htm    
                                Description: Medicine safety means you get the right medicine, the right dose, at the right times. During your hospital stay, your health care team needs to follow many steps to make sure this happens.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medicine safety during your hospital stay

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000501.htm

# Medicine safety during your hospital stay

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Medicine safety means you get the right medicine, the right dose, at the right
times. During your hospital stay, your health care team needs to follow many
steps to make sure this happens.

## Medicine Safety While You're in the Hospital

When you're in the hospital, work with your health care team to ensure that
you get the right medicines the right way.

## Getting the Right Medicine

All hospitals have a process in place to make sure you get the right
medicines. A mistake could cause a problem for you. The process is as follows:

      * Your doctor writes an order in your medical record for your medicine. This prescription goes to the hospital pharmacy.
      * The hospital pharmacist reads and fills the prescription. The medicine is labeled with the type of medicine and your name, and then sent to your nurse.
      * Your nurse reads the prescription label and gives you the medicine. This is called administering the medicine.
      * Your nurse and the rest of your health care team monitor (watch) you to see how you respond to the medicine. They watch to make sure the medicine is working. They also look for side effects the medicine could cause. 

## Filling Your Prescriptions

The pharmacy may receive some prescriptions by computer (electronic) and some
that are handwritten. Electronic prescriptions are easier to read than
handwritten prescriptions. This means there is less chance of a medicine error
with electronic prescriptions.

Your doctor can tell your nurse to write down a prescription for you. Then
your nurse can send the prescription to the pharmacy. This is called a verbal
order. Your nurse should repeat the prescription back to your doctor to make
sure it is right before sending it to the pharmacy.

Your doctor, nurse, and pharmacist will check to make sure any new medicines
you receive do not cause a bad reaction with other medicines you are already
taking.

## The Rights of Medication Administration

The Rights of Medication Administration is a checklist nurses use to make sure
you get the right medicine. The rights are as follows:

      * Right medicine (Is the right medicine being given?)
      * Right dose (Is the amount and strength of the medicine correct?)
      * Right patient (Is the medicine being given to the right patient?)
      * Right time (Is it the right time to give the medicine?)
      * Right route (Is the medicine being given the right way? It may be given by mouth, through a vein, on your skin, or another way.)
      * Right documentation (After giving the medicine, did the nurse make a record of it? The time, the route, dose, and other specific information about the medicine should be documented.)
      * Right reason (Is the medicine being given for the problem it has been prescribed for?)
      * Right response (Is the drug providing the desire effect? For example, after being given a blood pressure drug, does a patient's blood pressure actually go down?) 

## Tips to Stay Safe

You can help make sure you get the right medicine the right way during your
hospital stay by doing the following:

      * Tell your nurse and other health care providers about any allergies or side effects you have had to any medicines in the past.
      * Make sure your nurse and doctor know all the medicines, supplements, and herbs you were taking before you came to the hospital. Bring a list of all these with you. It is a good idea to keep this list in your wallet and with you at all times.
      * While you are in the hospital, do not take medicines you brought from home unless your doctor tells you it is OK. Make sure to tell your nurse if you take your own medicine.
      * Ask what each medicine is for. Also ask what side effects to watch for and tell your nurse about.
      * Know the names of the medicines you get and what times you should get them in the hospital.
      * Ask your nurse to tell you what medicines they are giving you. Keep a list of what medicines you get and what times you got them. Speak up if you think you are getting the wrong medicine or getting a medicine at the wrong time.
      * Any container that has medicine in it should have a label with the name of the medicine on it. This includes all syringes, tubes, bags, and pill bottles. If you do not see a label, ask your nurse what the medicine is.
      * Ask your nurse if you are taking any high-alert medicine. These are medicines that can cause harm if they are not given the right way, even if they are used for the right purpose. High-alert medicines include blood thinners, insulin, and narcotic pain medicines. Ask what extra safety steps are being taken if you are taking a high-alert medicine. 

## Alternative Names

Medication safety - hospital; Five rights - medication; Medication
administration - hospital; Medical errors - medication; Patient safety -
medication safety

## References

Petty BG. Principles of evidence-based prescribing. In: McKean SC, Ross JJ,
Dressler DD, Brotman DJ, Ginsberg JS, eds. _Principles and Practice of
Hospital Medicine_. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education; 2017:chap 11.

Wachter RM. Quality of care and patient safety. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Medication Errors

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

