Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007264.htm    
                                Description: Parathyroid cancer is a cancerous (malignant) growth in a parathyroid gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parathyroid cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007264.htm

# Parathyroid cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parathyroid cancer is a cancerous (malignant) growth in a parathyroid gland.

## Causes

The parathyroid glands control the calcium level in the body. There are 4
parathyroid glands, 2 on top of each lobe of the thyroid gland, which is
located at the base of the neck.

Parathyroid cancer is a very rare type of cancer. Men and women are equally
affected. It usually occurs in people older than 30.

The cause of parathyroid cancer is unknown. People with a genetic condition
called multiple endocrine neoplasia type I have an increased risk for this
disease. People who had head or neck radiation may also be at increased risk.
Such radiation exposure, however, is more likely to cause thyroid cancer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of parathyroid cancer are mainly caused by a high level of calcium in
the blood (hypercalcemia), and may affect different parts of the body. They
include:

      * Bone pain
      * Constipation
      * Fatigue
      * Fractures
      * Frequent thirst
      * Frequent urination
      * Kidney stones
      * Muscle weakness
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Poor appetite 

## Exams and Tests

Parathyroid cancer is very hard to diagnose.

Your doctor will perform a physical exam and ask about your medical history.

About half of the time, feeling the neck with the hands (palpation) can reveal
a cancerous parathyroid tumor.

A cancerous parathyroid tumor tends to produce a very high amount of
parathyroid hormone (PTH). Tests for this hormone may include:

      * Blood calcium
      * Blood PTH

Before surgery, you will have a special radioactive scan of the parathyroid
glands. The scan is called the sestamibi scan. You may also have a neck
ultrasound. These tests are done to confirm which parathyroid gland is
abnormal.

## Treatment

The following treatments may be used to correct hypercalcemia due to
parathyroid cancer:

      * A drug called gallium nitrate, which lowers the calcium level in the blood 
      * A natural hormone called calcitonin that helps control calcium level
      * Drugs that stop the breakdown and reabsorption of bones into the body
      * Fluids through a vein (IV fluids)

Surgery is the recommended treatment for parathyroid cancer. Sometimes, it is
hard to determine whether a parathyroid tumor is cancerous. Your doctor may
recommend surgery even without a confirmed diagnosis. Minimally invasive
surgery, using smaller cuts, is becoming more common for parathyroid disease.

If tests before the surgery can find the affected gland, surgery may be done
on one side of the neck. If it is not possible to find the problem gland
before surgery, the surgeon will look at both sides of your neck.

Chemotherapy and radiation do not work well in preventing the cancer from
coming back. Radiation can sometimes help reduce the spread of cancer to the
bones. Repeated surgeries for cancer that has returned may increase survival
rate and reduce the severe effects of hypercalcemia.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Parathyroid cancer is slow growing. Surgery may help extend life even when the
cancer spreads.

## Possible Complications

The cancer may spread (metastasize) to other places in the body, most commonly
the lungs and bones.

The most serious complication of parathyroid cancer is hypercalcemia. Most
deaths from parathyroid cancer occur as a result of severe, difficult to
control hypercalcemia, and not the cancer itself.

The cancer commonly comes back (recurs). Additional surgeries may be needed.
Complications from surgery can include:

      * Hoarseness or voice changes as a result of damage to the nerve that controls the vocal cords
      * Infection at the site of surgery
      * Low level of calcium in the blood (hypocalcemia), a potentially life-threatening condition
      * Scarring 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you feel a lump in your neck or experience
symptoms of hypercalcemia.

## Alternative Names

Parathyroid carcinoma

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Parathyroid cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/parathyroid/hp/parathyroid-
treatment-pdq. Updated March 17, 2017. Accessed April 9, 2018.

Pasieka JL, Toro-Serra RO, Clayman GL, Khalil M. Parathyroid carcinoma. In:
Randolph GW, ed. _Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 69.

Schneider DF, Mazeh H, Lubner SJ, Jaume JC, Chen H. Cancer of the endocrine
system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 71.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

