Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000044.htm    
                                Description: You were treated in the hospital for hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia means you have too much calcium in your blood. Now that you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypercalcemia - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000044.htm

# Hypercalcemia - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were treated in the hospital for hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia means you
have too much calcium in your blood. Now that you're going home, you need to
keep your calcium at a level as instructed by your health care provider.

## When You're in the Hospital

Your body needs calcium so that you can use your muscles. Calcium also keeps
your bones and teeth strong and your heart healthy.

Your blood calcium level may get too high due to:

      * Certain kinds of cancers
      * Problems with certain glands
      * Too much vitamin D in your system
      * Being on bed rest for a long time 

When you were in the hospital, you were given fluids through an IV and drugs
to help lower the calcium level in your blood. If you have cancer, you may
have had treatment for that, as well. If your hypercalcemia is caused by a
gland problem, you may have had surgery to remove that gland.

## Self-care

After you go home, follow your provider's instructions about making sure your
calcium level does not get high again.

You may need to drink a lot of liquids.

      * Make sure you drink as much water every day as your provider recommends.
      * Keep water next to your bed at night and drink some when you get up to use the bathroom. 

DO NOT cut back on how much salt you eat.

Your provider may ask you to limit foods with a lot of calcium, or not to eat
them at all for a while.

      * Eat fewer dairy foods (such as cheese, milk, yogurt, ice cream) or don't eat them at all.
      * If your provider says you can eat dairy foods, don't eat those that have extra calcium added. Read the labels carefully. 

To further keep your calcium level from getting high again:

      * Don't use antacids that have a lot of calcium in them. Look for antacids that have magnesium. Ask your provider which ones are OK.
      * Ask your doctor what medicines and herbs are safe for you to take.
      * If your doctor prescribes medicines to help keep your calcium level from getting too high again, take them the way you're told to. Call your doctor if you have any side effects.
      * Stay active when you get home. Your provider will tell you how much activity and exercise are OK. 

You will probably need to get blood tests after you go home.

Keep any follow-up appointments you make with your provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms:

      * Headaches
      * Irregular heartbeats
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Increased thirst or dry mouth
      * Little or no sweating
      * Dizziness
      * Confusion
      * Blood in the urine
      * Dark urine
      * Pain on one side of your back
      * Abdominal pain
      * Severe constipation

## Alternative Names

Hypercalcemia; Transplant - hypercalcemia; Transplantation - hypercalcemia;
Cancer treatment - hypercalcemia

## References

Smogorzewski MJ, Stubbs JR, Yu ASL. Disorders of calcium, magnesium, and
phosphate. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds.
_Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

Swan KL, Wysolmerski JJ. Hypercalcemia of malignancy. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia, and hypocalcemia. In
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Read More

      * Hypercalcemia
      * Kidney stones

## Patient Instructions

      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Kidney stones - self-care

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Calcium
      * Parathyroid Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

