Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001188.htm    
                                Description: A parathyroid adenoma is a noncancerous (benign) tumor of the parathyroid glands.Â The parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to the back side of the thyroid gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parathyroid adenoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001188.htm

# Parathyroid adenoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A parathyroid adenoma is a noncancerous (benign) tumor of the parathyroid
glands.Â The parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to
the back side of the thyroid gland.

## Causes

The parathyroid glands in the neck help control calcium use and removal by the
body. They do this by producing parathyroid hormone, or PTH. PTH helps control
calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and is important for
healthy bones.

Most parathyroid adenomas do not have an identified cause. Sometimes a genetic
problem is the cause. This is more common if the diagnosis is made when you
are young.

Conditions that stimulate the parathyroid glands to get bigger can also cause
an adenoma. These include:

      * Genetic disorders
      * Taking the drug lithium
      * Chronic kidney disease

Women over age 60 have the highest risk for developing this condition.
Radiation to the head or neck also increases risk.

## Symptoms

Many people have no symptoms. The condition is often discovered when blood
tests are done for another medical reason.

Parathyroid adenomas are the most common cause of hyperparathyroidism
(overactive parathyroid glands), which leads to an increased blood calcium
level.Â Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Confusion
      * Constipation 
      * Lack of energy (lethargy)
      * Muscle pain
      * Nausea or decreased appetite
      * Urinating more often at night 
      * Weak bones or fractures

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests may be done to check levels of:

      * PTH
      * Calcium
      * Phosphorus
      * Vitamin D

A 24-hour urine test may be done to check for increased calcium in the urine.

Other tests include:

      * Bone density exam
      * Kidney ultrasound or CT scan (may show kidney stones) 
      * Kidney x-rays (may show kidney stones) 
      * MRI
      * Neck ultrasound
      * Sestamibi neck scan (to check for swelling of the parathyroid glands) 

## Treatment

Surgery is the most common treatment, and it often cures the condition. But,
some people choose to only have regular checkups with their health care
provider if the condition is mild.

To help improve the condition, your provider may ask you to stop taking
calcium and vitamin D supplements. Women who have gone through menopause may
want to discuss treatment with estrogen.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When treated, outlook is generally good.

## Possible Complications

Osteoporosis and the increased risk for bone fractures is the most common
concern.

Other complications are less common, but may include:

      * Nephrocalcinosis (calcium deposits in the kidneys that can reduce kidney function) 
      * Osteitis fibrosa cystica (softened, weak areas in the bones)

Complications from surgery include:

      * Damage to a nerve that controls your voice
      * Damage to the parathyroid glands, which causes hypoparathyroidism (lack of enough parathyroid hormone) and low calcium level

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Hyperparathyroidism - parathyroid adenoma; Overactive parathyroid gland -
parathyroid adenoma

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Parathyroid glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8890t.jpg)Parathyroid glands

## References

Silverberg SJ, Bilezikian JP. Primary hyperparathyroidism. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 63.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia, and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

