Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001189.htm    
                                Description: Parathyroid hyperplasia is the enlargement of all 4 parathyroid glands. The parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to the back side of the thyroid gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parathyroid hyperplasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001189.htm

# Parathyroid hyperplasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parathyroid hyperplasia is the enlargement of all 4 parathyroid glands. The
parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to the back side
of the thyroid gland.

## Causes

The parathyroid glands help control calcium use and removal by the body. They
do this by producing parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH helps control calcium,
phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and is important for healthy
bones.

Parathyroid hyperplasia may occur in people without a family history of the
disease, or as part of 3 inherited syndromes:

      * Multiple endocrine neoplasia I (MEN I)
      * MEN IIA
      * Isolated familial hyperparathyroidism

In people with an inherited syndrome, a changed (mutated) gene is passed down
through the family. You only need to get the gene fromÂ one parent to develop
the condition.

      * In MEN I, problems in the parathyroid glands occur, as well as tumors in the pituitary gland and pancreas.
      * In MEN IIA, overactivity of the parathyroid glands occurs, along with tumors in the adrenal or thyroid gland. 

Parathyroid hyperplasia that isn't part of an inherited syndrome is much more
common. It occurs due to other medical conditions. The most common conditions
that can cause parathyroid hyperplasia are chronic kidney disease and chronic
vitamin D deficiency. In both cases, the parathyroid glands become enlarged
because vitamin D and calcium levels are too low.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Bone fractures or bone pain
      * Constipation
      * Lack of energy
      * Muscle pain
      * Nausea

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests will be done to check levels of:

      * Calcium
      * Phosphorus
      * Magnesium
      * PTH
      * Vitamin D

A 24-hour urine test may be done to determine how much calcium is being
filtered out of the body into the urine.

Bone x-rays and a bone density test (DXA) can help detect fractures, bone
loss, and bone softening.Â Ultrasound and CT scans may be done to view the
parathyroid glands in the neck.

## Treatment

If parathyroid hyperplasia is due to kidney disease or low vitamin D level and
it is found early, your provider may recommend that you take vitamin D,
vitamin D-like drugs, and other medicines.

Surgery is usually done when the parathyroid glands are producing too much PTH
and causing symptoms. Usually 3 1/2 glands are removed. The remaining tissue
may be implanted in the forearm or neck muscle. This allows easy access to the
tissue if symptoms come back. This tissue is implanted to prevent the body
from having too little PTH, which helps control calcium levels.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After surgery, high calcium level may persist or return. Surgery can sometimes
cause hypoparathyroidism, which makes blood calcium level too low.

## Possible Complications

Parathyroid hyperplasia can cause hyperparathyroidism, which leads to an
increase in blood calcium level.

Complications include increased calcium in the kidneys, which can cause kidney
stones,Â and osteitis fibrosa cystica (a softened, weak area in the bones).

Surgery can sometimes damage the nerves that control the vocal cords. This can
affect the strength of your voice.

Complications may result from the other tumors that are part of the MEN
syndromes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have any symptoms of hypercalcemia
      * You have a family history of a MEN syndrome

## Prevention

If you have a family history of the MEN syndromes, you may want to have
genetic screening to check for the defective gene. Those who have the
defective gene may have routine screening tests to detect any early symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Enlarged parathyroid glands; Osteoporosis - parathyroid hyperplasia; Bone
thinning - parathyroid hyperplasia; Osteopenia - parathyroid hyperplasia; High
calcium level - parathyroid hyperplasia; Chronic kidney disease - parathyroid
hyperplasia; Kidney failure - parathyroid hyperplasia; Overactive parathyroid
- parathyroid hyperplasia

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Parathyroid glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8890t.jpg)Parathyroid glands

## References

Silverberg SJ, Bilezikian JP. Primary hyperparathyroidism. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 63.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

