Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000385.htm    
                                Description: Hypoparathyroidism is a disorder in which the parathyroid glands in the neck do not produce enough parathyroid hormone (PTH).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypoparathyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000385.htm

# Hypoparathyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypoparathyroidism is a disorder in which the parathyroid glands in the neck
do not produce enough parathyroid hormone (PTH).

## Causes

There areÂ 4 tiny parathyroid glands in the neck, located near or attached to
the back side of the thyroid gland.

The parathyroid glands help control calcium use and removal by the body. They
do this by producing parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH helps control calcium,
phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and bone.

Hypoparathyroidism occurs when the glands produce too little PTH. The blood
calcium level falls, and the phosphorus level rises.

The most common cause of hypoparathyroidism is injury to the parathyroid
glands during thyroid or neck surgery. It may also be caused by any of the
following:

      * Radioactive iodine treatment for hyperthyroidism
      * Very low magnesium level in the blood
      * Autoimmune attack on the parathyroid glands 

DiGeorge syndrome is a childhood disease in which hypoparathyroidism occurs
because all the parathyroid glands are missing at birth. This disease includes
other health problems besides hypoparathyroidism.

Familial hypoparathyroidism occurs with other endocrine diseases such as
adrenal insufficiency in a syndrome called type I polyglandular autoimmune
syndrome (PGA I).

## Symptoms

Onset of the disease is very gradual and symptoms can be mild. Many people
diagnosed with hypoparathyroidism have had symptoms for years before they are
diagnosed.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Brittle nails
      * Cataracts
      * Calcium deposits in some tissues 
      * Decreased consciousness
      * Dry hair 
      * Dry, scaly skin 
      * Muscle cramps 
      * Muscle spasms called tetany (can affect the larynx, causing breathing difficulties)
      * Pain in the face, legs, and feet
      * Painful menstruation
      * Seizures
      * Teeth that do not grow in on time, or at all
      * Tingling lips, fingers, and toes
      * Weakened tooth enamel (in children) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about symptoms.

Tests that will be done include:

      * PTH blood test
      * Calcium blood test
      * Magnesium
      * 24-hour urine test

Other tests that may be ordered include:

      * ECG to check for an abnormal heart rhythm
      * CT scan to check for calcium deposits in the brain

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and restore the calcium and
mineral balance in the body.

Treatment involves calcium carbonate and vitamin D supplements. These usually
must be taken for life. Blood levels are measured regularly to make sure that
the dose is correct. A high-calcium, low-phosphorous diet is recommended.

Injections of PTH may be recommended for some people. Your doctor can tell you
if this medicine is right for you.

People who have life-threatening attacks of low calcium levels or prolonged
muscle contractions are given calcium through a vein (IV). Precautions are
taken to prevent seizures or larynx spasms. The heart is monitored for
abnormal rhythms until the person is stable. When the life-threatening attack
has been controlled, treatment continues with medicine taken by mouth.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is likely to be good if the diagnosis is made early. But changes
in the teeth, cataracts, and brain calcifications cannot be reversed in
children who have undiagnosed hypoparathyroidism during development.

## Possible Complications

Hypoparathyroidism in children may lead toÂ poor growth, abnormal teeth, and
slow mental development.

Too much treatment with vitamin D and calcium can cause high blood calcium
(hypercalcemia) or high urine calciumÂ (hypercalciuria). Excess treatment may
sometimes interfere with kidney function, or even cause kidney failure.

Hypoparathyroidism increasesÂ the risk of:

      * Addison disease (only if the cause is autoimmune)
      * Cataracts
      * Parkinson disease
      * Pernicious anemia (only if the cause is autoimmune) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop any symptoms of hypoparathyroidism.

Seizures or breathing problems are an emergency. Call 911 or your local
emergency number right away.

## Alternative Names

Parathyroid-related hypocalcemia

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Parathyroid glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8890t.jpg)Parathyroid glands

## References

Clarke BL, Brown EM, Collins MT, et al. Epidemiology and diagnosis of
hypoparathyroidism. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab._ 2016;101(6):2284-2299. PMID:
26943720 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26943720.

Darr EA, Sritharan N, Pellitteri PK, Sofferman RA, Randolph GW. Management of
parathyroid disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 124.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

