Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001215.htm    
                                Description: Hyperparathyroidism is a disorder in which the parathyroid glands in your neck produce too much parathyroid hormone (PTH).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperparathyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001215.htm

# Hyperparathyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperparathyroidism is a disorder in which the parathyroid glands in your neck
produce too much parathyroid hormone (PTH).

## Causes

There are 4 tiny parathyroid glands in the neck, near or attached to the back
side of the thyroid gland.

The parathyroid glands help control calcium use and removal by the body. They
do this by producing parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH helps control calcium,
phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and bone.

When calcium level is too low, the body responds by making more PTH. This
causes the calcium level in the blood to rise.

When one or more of the parathyroid glands grow larger, it leads to too much
PTH. Most often, the cause is not known.

      * The disease is most common in people over age 60, but it can also occur in younger adults. Hyperparathyroidism in childhood is very unusual.
      * Women are more likely to be affected than men.
      * Radiation to the head and neck increases the risk.
      * Some genetic syndromes (multiple endocrine neoplasia I) make it more likely to have hyperparathyroidism.
      * In very rare cases, the disease is caused by parathyroid cancer.

Medical conditions that cause low blood calcium or increased phosphate can
also lead to hyperparathyroidism. Common conditions include:

      * Conditions that make it hard for the body to remove phosphate
      * Kidney failure
      * Not enough calcium in the diet
      * Too much calcium lost in the urine
      * Vitamin D disorders (may occur in children who do not eat a variety of foods, and in older adults who do not get enough sunlight on their skin)
      * Problems absorbing nutrients from food

## Symptoms

Hyperparathyroidism is often diagnosed by common blood tests before symptoms
occur.

Symptoms are mostly caused by damage to organs from high calcium level in the
blood, or by the loss of calcium from the bones. Symptoms can include:

      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Depression and forgetfulness
      * Feeling tired, ill, and weak
      * Fragile bones of the limbs and spine that can break easily
      * Increased amount of urine produced and needing to urinate more often
      * Kidney stones
      * Nausea and loss of appetite 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about symptoms.

Tests thatÂ may be done include:

      * PTH blood test
      * Calcium blood test
      * Alkaline phosphatase
      * Phosphorus
      * 24-hour urine test

Bone x-rays and bone mineral density (DXA) tests can help detect bone loss,
fractures, or bone softening.

X-rays, ultrasound, or CT scans of the kidneys or urinary tract may show
calcium deposits or a blockage.

Ultrasound or a nuclear medicine scan of the neck (sestamibi) is used to see
if a benign tumor (adenoma) in a parathyroid gland is causing
hyperparathyroidism.

## Treatment

If you have a mildly increased calcium level and don't have symptoms, you may
choose to have regular checkups or get treated.

If you decide to have treatment, it may include:

      * Drinking more fluids to prevent kidney stones from forming
      * Exercising
      * Not taking a type of water pill called thiazide diuretic
      * Estrogen for women who have gone through menopause
      * Having surgery to remove the overactive glands

If you have symptoms or your calcium level is very high, you may need surgery
to remove the parathyroid gland that is overproducing the hormone.

If you have hyperparathyroidism from a medical condition, your provider may
prescribe vitamin D, if you have a low vitamin D level.

If hyperparathyroidism is caused by kidney failure, treatment may include:

      * Extra calcium and vitamin D
      * Avoiding phosphate in the diet
      * The medicine cinacalcet (Sensipar)
      * Dialysis or a kidney transplant
      * Parathyroid surgery, if the parathyroid level becomes uncontrollably high 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the cause of hyperparathyroidism.

## Possible Complications

Long-term problems that can occur when hyperparathyroidism is not well
controlled include:

      * Bones become weak, deformed, or can break
      * High blood pressure and heart disease
      * Kidney stones
      * Long-term kidney disease

Parathyroid gland surgery can result in hypoparathyroidism and damage to the
nerves that control the vocal cords.

## Alternative Names

Parathyroid-related hypercalcemia; Osteoporosis - hyperparathyroidism; Bone
thinning - hyperparathyroidism; Osteopenia - hyperparathyroidism; High calcium
level - hyperparathyroidism; Chronic kidney disease - hyperparathyroidism;
Kidney failure - hyperparathyroidism; Overactive parathyroid; Vitamin D
deficiency - hyperparathyroidism

## Images

      * ![Parathyroid glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8890t.jpg)Parathyroid glands

## References

Silverberg SJ, Bilezikian JP. Primary hyperparathyroidism. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 63.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

