Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000365.htm    
                                Description: Hypercalcemia means you have too much calcium inÂ your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypercalcemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000365.htm

# Hypercalcemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypercalcemia means you have too much calcium inÂ your blood.

## Causes

Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and Vitamin D help manage calcium balance in the
body.

      * PTH is made by the parathyroid glands. These are four small glands located in the neck behind the thyroid gland. 
      * Vitamin D is obtained when the skin is exposed to sunlight, and from food sources or supplements.

The most common cause of high calcium blood level is excess PTH released by
the parathyroid glands. This excess occurs due to:

      * An enlargement of one or more of the parathyroid glands. 
      * A growth on one of the glands. Most of the time, these growths are benign (not a cancer).

Calcium blood level may also be high if your body is low on fluids or water.

Other conditions can also cause hypercalcemia:

      * Certain kinds of cancers, such as lung and breast cancer, or cancer that has spread to your organs.
      * Too much vitamin D in your blood (hypervitaminosis D).
      * Being immobile in bed for many days or weeks (mostly in children).
      * Too much calcium in your diet. This is called milk-alkali syndrome. It most often occurs when a person is taking more than 2000 milligrams of calcium bicarbonate supplements a day along with high doses of Vitamin D.
      * Overactive thyroid gland. 
      * Chronic kidney disease or kidney failure. 
      * Medicines such as lithium and thiazide diuretics (water pills).
      * Some infections or health problems such as, Paget's disease, tuberculosis and sarcoidosis. 
      * An inherited condition that affects the body's ability to manage calcium. 

Men and women of all ages can have a high blood calcium level. However, it is
most common in women over age 50 (after menopause). In most cases, this is due
to an overactive parathyroid gland.

## Symptoms

The condition is most often diagnosed at an early stage using routine blood
tests. Most people have no symptoms.

Symptoms due to high calcium level may vary, depending on the cause and how
long the problemÂ has beenÂ present. They may include:

      * Digestive symptoms, such as nausea or vomiting, poor appetite, or constipation
      * Increased thirst or more frequent urination, due to changes in the kidneys 
      * Muscle weakness or twitches
      * Changes in how your brain works, such as feeling tired or fatigued or confused
      * Bone pain and fragile bones that break more easily

## Exams and Tests

An accurate diagnosis is needed in hypercalcemia. People with kidney stones
should have tests to evaluate for hypercalcemia.

      * Serum calcium
      * Serum PTH
      * Serum PTHrP (PTH-related protein)
      * Serum vitamin D level
      * Urine calcium

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the cause of hypercalcemia whenever possible. People
with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) may need surgery to remove the
abnormal parathyroid gland. This will cure the hypercalcemia.

People with mild hypercalcemia may be able to monitor the condition closely
over time without treatment.

In women who are in menopause, treatment with estrogen can sometimes reverse
mild hypercalcemia.

Severe hypercalcemia that causes symptoms and requires a hospital stay may be
treated with the following:

      * Fluids through a vein -- This is the most important therapy.
      * Calcitonin.
      * Dialysis, if kidney damage is involved.
      * Diuretic medicine, such as furosemide.
      * Drugs that stop bone breakdown and absorption by the body (bisphosphonates).
      * Glucocorticoids (steroids).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the cause of your high calcium level. The outlook
is good for people with mild hyperparathyroidism or hypercalcemiaÂ that haveÂ
a treatable cause. Most of the time, there are no complications.

People with hypercalcemia due to conditions such as cancer or sarcoidosis may
not do well. This is most often due to the disease itself, rather than the
high calcium level.

## Possible Complications

GASTROINTESTINAL

      * Pancreatitis
      * Peptic ulcer disease

KIDNEY

      * Calcium deposits in the kidney (nephrocalcinosis) that cause poor kidney function
      * Dehydration
      * High blood pressure
      * Kidney failure
      * Kidney stones

PSYCHOLOGICAL

      * Depression
      * Difficulty concentrating or thinking

SKELETAL

      * Bone cysts
      * Fractures
      * Osteoporosis

These complications of long-term hypercalcemia are uncommon today in many
countries.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you have:

      * Family history of hypercalcemia
      * Family history of hyperparathyroidism
      * Symptoms of hypercalcemia

## Prevention

Most causes of hypercalcemia cannot be prevented. Women over age 50 should see
their provider regularly and have their blood calcium level checked if they
have symptoms of hypercalcemia.

Talk to your provider about the correct doseÂ if you are takingÂ calcium and
vitamin D supplements.

## Alternative Names

Calcium - elevated; High calcium level; Hyperparathyroidism - hypercalcemia

## Patient Instructions

      * Hypercalcemia - discharge

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Aronson JK. Vitamin D analogues. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:chap 487-487.

Darr EA, Sritharan N, Pellitteri PK, Sofferman RA, Randolph GW. Management of
parathyroid disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 124.

Swan KL, Wysolmerski JJ. Hypercalcemia of malignancy. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia, and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

