Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003690.htm    
                                Description: The PTH test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003690.htm

# Parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The PTH test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood.

PTH stands for parathyroid hormone. It is a protein hormone released by the
parathyroid gland.

A laboratory test can be done to measure the amount of PTH in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Ask your health care provider if you should stop eating or drinking for some
period of time before the test. Most often, you will not need to fast or stop
drinking.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

PTH is released by the parathyroid glands. The 4 small parathyroid glands are
located in the neck, near or attached to the back side of the thyroid gland.
The thyroid gland is located in the neck, just above where your collarbones
meet in the middle.

PTH controls calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood. It is
important for regulating bone growth. Your provider may order this test if:

      * You have a high calcium level or low phosphorus level in your blood.
      * You have severe osteoporosis that cannot be explained or does not respond to treatment.
      * You have kidney disease.

To help understand whether your PTH is normal, your provider will measure your
blood calcium at the same time.

## Normal Results

Normal values are 10 to 55 picograms per milliliter (pg/mL).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal level may occur with:

      * Disorders that increase phosphate or phosphorous levels in the blood, such as long-term (chronic) kidney disease
      * Failure of the body to respond to PTH (pseudohypoparathyroidism)
      * Lack of calcium, which may be due to not eating enough calcium, not absorbing calcium in the gut, or losing too much calcium in your urine
      * Pregnancy or breastfeeding (uncommon)
      * Swelling in the parathyroid glands, called primary hyperparathyroidism
      * Tumors in the parathyroid gland, called adenomas
      * Vitamin D disorders, including not enough sunlight in older adults and problems absorbing, breaking down, and using vitamin D in the body 

A lower-than-normal level may occur with:

      * Accidental removal of parathyroid glands during thyroid surgery
      * Autoimmune destruction of the parathyroid gland
      * Cancers that start in another part of the body (such as the breast, lungs, or colon) and spread to the bone
      * Excess calcium over a long period of time usually from excess calcium supplements or certain antacids, that contain calcium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate (baking soda)
      * Parathyroid glands do not produce enough PTH (hypoparathyroidism)
      * Low levels of magnesium in the blood
      * Radiation to the parathyroid glands
      * Sarcoidosis and tuberculosis
      * Excess vitamin D intake

Other conditions for which the test may be ordered include:

      * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) I
      * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Parathormone; Parathormone (PTH) intact molecule; Intact PTH;
Hyperparathyroidism - PTH blood test; Hypoparathyroidism - PTH blood test

## References

Bringhurst FR, Demay MB, Kronenberg HM. Hormones and disorders of mineral
metabolism. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds.
_Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) - Blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:854-856.

## Review Date 11/17/2017

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

