Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002931.htm    
                                Description: Parathyroidectomy is surgery to remove the parathyroid glands or parathyroid tumors. The parathyroid glands are right behind your thyroid gland in your neck. These glands help your body control the calcium    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parathyroid gland removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002931.htm

# Parathyroid gland removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parathyroidectomy is surgery to remove the parathyroid glands or parathyroid
tumors. The parathyroid glands are right behind your thyroid gland in your
neck. These glands help your body control the calcium level in the blood.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) for this surgery.

Usually the parathyroid glands are removed using a 2- to 4-inch (5- to 10-cm)
surgical cut on your neck. During surgery:

      * The cut is usually made in the center of your neck just under your Adam's apple.
      * Your surgeon will look for the four parathyroid glands and remove any that are diseased.
      * You may have a special blood test during surgery that will tell if all the diseased glands were removed.
      * In rare cases, when all four of these glands need to be removed, part of one is transplanted into the forearm. Or, it is transplanted into a muscle in the front of your neck next to the thyroid gland. This helps ensure your body's calcium level stays at a healthy level. 

The specific type of surgery depends on where the diseased parathyroid glands
are. Types of surgery include:

      * Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy. You may receive a shot of a very small amount of radioactive tracer before this surgery. This helps highlight the diseased glands. If you have this shot, your surgeon will use a special probe, like a Geiger counter, to locate the parathyroid gland. Your surgeon will make a small cut (1 to 2 inches; or 2.5 to 5 cm) on one side of your neck, and then remove the diseased gland through it. This procedure takes about 1 hour.
      * Video-assisted parathyroidectomy. Your surgeon will make two small cuts in your neck. One is for instruments, and the other is for a camera. Your surgeon will use the camera to view the area and will remove the diseased glands with the instruments.
      * Endoscopic parathyroidectomy. Your surgeon will make two or three small cuts in the front of your neck and one cut above the top of your collarbone. This reduces visible scarring, pain, and recovery time. This cut is less than 2 inches (5 cm) long. The procedure to remove any diseased parathyroid glands is similar to video-assisted parathyroidectomy. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your health care provider may recommend this surgery if one or more of your
parathyroid glands is producing too much parathyroid hormone. This condition
is called hyperparathyroidism. It is often caused by a small non-cancerous
(benign) tumor called an adenoma.

Your surgeon will consider many factors when deciding whether to do surgery
and what type of surgery would be best for you. Some of these factors are:

      * Your age
      * Calcium levels in your urine and blood
      * Whether you have symptoms 

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Reactions to medicines or breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for parathyroidectomy are:

      * Injury to the thyroid gland or the need to remove part of the thyroid gland.
      * Hypoparathyroidism. This can lead to low calcium levels that are dangerous to your health.
      * Injury to the nerves going to the muscles that move your vocal cords. You may have a hoarse or weaker voice which could be temporary or permanent.
      * Difficulty breathing. This is very rare and almost always goes away several weeks or months after surgery. 

## Before the Procedure

Parathyroid glands are very small. You may need to have tests that show
exactly where your glands are. This will help your surgeon find your
parathyroid glands during surgery. Two of the tests you may have are a CT scan
and an ultrasound.

Before surgery, an anesthesiologist will review your medical history with you
and decide what type of anesthesia to use. The anesthesiologist is the doctor
who will give you the medicine that allows you to sleep and be pain free
during surgery and who monitors you during surgery.

Tell your surgeon:

      * If you are or might be pregnant
      * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you're taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the week before your surgery:

      * Fill any prescriptions for pain medicine and calcium you'll need after surgery.
      * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These include NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), and clopidegrel (Plavix).
      * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * Follow instructions about not eating and drinking.
      * Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

Often, people can go home the same day they have surgery. You can start your
everyday activities in a few days. It will take about 1 to 3 weeks for you to
fully heal.

The surgery area must be kept clean and dry. You may need to drink liquids and
eat soft foods for a day.

Call your surgeon if you have any numbness or tingling around your mouth in
the 24 to 48 hours after surgery. This is caused by low calcium. Follow
instructions about how to take your calcium supplements.

After this procedure, you should have routine blood tests to check your
calcium level.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People usually recover soon after this surgery. Recovery may be fastest when
less invasive techniques are used.

Sometimes, another surgery is needed to remove more of the parathyroid glands.

## Alternative Names

Removal of parathyroid gland; Parathyroidectomy; Hyperparathyroidism -
parathyroidectomy; PTH - parathyroidectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Parathyroidectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9008t.jpg)Parathyroidectomy
      * ![Parathyroidectomy - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10274t.jpg)Parathyroidectomy - series

## References

Moalem J. Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM,
eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1550-1556.

Quinn CE, Udelsman R. The parathyroid glands. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

