Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000730.htm    
                                Description: A transient ischemic attack (TIA) occurs when blood flow to a part of the brain stops for a brief time. A person will have stroke-like symptoms for up to 24 hours. In most cases, the symptoms last for    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transient ischemic attack

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000730.htm

# Transient ischemic attack

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A transient ischemic attack (TIA) occurs when blood flow to a part of the
brain stops for a brief time. A person will have stroke-like symptoms for up
to 24 hours. In most cases, the symptoms last for 1 to 2 hours.

A transient ischemic attack is a warning sign that a true stroke may happen in
the future if something is not done to prevent it.

## Causes

A TIA is different than a stroke. After a TIA, the blockage breaks up quickly
and dissolves. A TIA does not cause brain tissue to die.

The loss of blood flow to an area of the brain can be caused by:

      * A blood clot in an artery of the brain
      * A blood clot that travels to the brain from somewhere else in the body (for example, from the heart)
      * An injury to blood vessels
      * Narrowing of a blood vessel in the brain or leading to the brain 

High blood pressure is the main risk for TIAs and stroke. Other major risk
factors are:

      * Irregular heartbeat called atrial fibrillation
      * Diabetes
      * Family history of stroke
      * Being male
      * High cholesterol
      * Increasing age, especially after age 55
      * Ethnicity (African Americans are more likely to die of stroke)
      * Smoking
      * Alcohol use
      * Recreational drug use
      * History of prior TIA or stroke 

People who have heart disease or poor blood flow in their legs caused by
narrowed arteries are also more likely to have a TIA or stroke.

## Symptoms

Symptoms begin suddenly, last a short time (from a few minutes to 1 to 2
hours), and go away. They may occur again at a later time.

The symptoms of TIA are the same as the symptoms of a stroke, and include:

      * Change in alertness (including sleepiness or unconsciousness)
      * Changes in the senses (such as hearing, vision, taste, and touch)
      * Mental changes (such as confusion, memory loss, difficulty writing or reading, trouble speaking or understanding others)
      * Muscle problems (such as weakness, trouble swallowing, trouble walking)
      * Dizziness or loss of balance and coordination
      * Lack of control over the bladder or bowels
      * Nerve problems (such as numbness or tingling on one side of the body) 

## Exams and Tests

Often, the symptoms and signs of a TIA will have gone away by the time you get
to the hospital. A TIA diagnosis may be made based on your medical history
alone.

The health care provider will do a complete physical exam to check for heart
and blood vessel problems. You will also be checked for nerve and muscle
problems.

The doctor will use a stethoscope to listen to your heart and arteries. An
abnormal sound called a bruit may be heard when listening to the carotid
artery in the neck or other artery. A bruit is caused by irregular blood flow.

Tests will be done to rule out a stroke or other disorders that may cause the
symptoms:

      * You will likely have a head CT scan or brain MRI. A stroke may show changes on these tests, but TIAs will not.
      * You may have an angiogram, CT angiogram, or MR angiogram to see which blood vessel is blocked or bleeding.
      * You may have an echocardiogram if your doctor thinks you may have a blood clot from the heart.
      * Carotid duplex (ultrasound) can show if the carotid arteries in your neck have narrowed.
      * You may have an electrocardiogram (ECG) and heart rhythm monitoring tests to check for an irregular heartbeat. 

Your doctor may do other tests to check for high blood pressure, heart
disease, diabetes, high cholesterol, and other causes of, and risk factors for
TIAs or stroke.

## Treatment

If you have had a TIA within the last 48 hours, you will likely be admitted to
the hospital so that doctors can search for the cause and observe you.

High blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, high cholesterol, and blood
disorders will be treated as needed. You will be encouraged to make lifestyle
changes to reduce your risk of further symptoms. Changes include quitting
smoking, exercising more, and eating healthier foods.

You may receive blood thinners, such as aspirin or Coumadin, to reduce blood
clotting. Some people who have blocked neck arteries may need surgery (carotid
endarterectomy). If you have an irregular heartbeat (atrial fibrillation), you
will be treated to avoid future complications.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

TIAs do not cause lasting damage to the brain.

But, TIAs are a warning sign that you may have a true stroke in the coming
days or months. Some people who have a TIA will have a stroke within 3 months.
Half of these strokes happen during the 48 hours after a TIA. The stroke may
occur that same day or at a later time. Some people have only a single TIA,
and others have more than one TIA.

You can reduce your chances of a future stroke by following up with your
provider to manage your risk factors.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A TIA is a medical emergency. Call 911 or another local emergency number right
away. DO NOT ignore symptoms just because they go away. They may be a warning
of a future stroke.

## Prevention

Follow your provider's instructions on how to prevent TIAs and strokes. You
will likely be told to make lifestyle changes and take medicines to treat high
blood pressure or high cholesterol.

## Alternative Names

Mini stroke; TIA; Little stroke; Cerebrovascular disease - TIA; Carotid artery
- TIA

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
      * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
      * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
      * Stroke - discharge 
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Images

      * ![Endarterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18059t.jpg)Endarterectomy
      * ![Transient Ischemic attack \(TIA\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8968t.jpg)Transient Ischemic attack (TIA)

## References

Biller J, Ruland S, Schneck MJ. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

Crocco TJ, Meurer WJ. Stroke. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 91.

James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 evidence-based guideline for the
management of high blood pressure in adults: report from the panel members
appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). _JAMA_.
2014;311(5):507-520. PMID: 24352797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24352797.

January CT, Wann LS, Calkins H, et al. 2019 AHA/ACC/HRS focused updated of the
2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the management of patients with atrial
fibrillation: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _J
AM Coll Cardiol._ 2019 Jan 21. pii: S0735-1097(19)30209-8. PMID: 30703431
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30703431.

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, et al. Guidelines for the prevention of
stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for
healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke
Association. _Stroke_. 2014;45(7):2160-2236. PMID: 24788967
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24788967.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_.
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Riegel B, Moser DK, Buck HG, et al; American Heart Association Council on
Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease; and
Council on Quality of Care and Outcomes Research. Self-care for the prevention
and management of cardiovascular disease and stroke: a scientific statement
for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. _J Am Heart
Assoc._ 2017;6(9). pii: e006997. PMID: 28860232
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28860232.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA Guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol._
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Transient Ischemic
Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TransientIschemicAttack_thumb.jpg)Transient
Ischemic Attack _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

