Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000796.htm    
                                Description: Marijuana comes from a plant called hemp. Its scientific name is Cannabis sativa. The main, active ingredient in marijuana is THC (short for delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol). This ingredient is found in the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use - marijuana

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000796.htm

# Substance use - marijuana

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Marijuana comes from a plant called hemp. Its scientific name is _Cannabis
sativa_. The main, active ingredient in marijuana is THC (short for
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol). This ingredient is found in the leaves and
flowering parts of the marijuana plant. Hashish is a substance taken from the
tops of female marijuana plants. It contains the highest amount of THC.

Marijuana is called by many other names, including cannabis, grass, hashish,
joint, Mary Jane, pot, reefer, weed.

Some states in the Unites States permit marijuana to be used legally to treat
certain medical problems. Other states have also legalized its use.

This article is on the recreational use of marijuana, which may lead to abuse.

## Marijuana's Effects on Your Brain

The THC in marijuana acts on your brain (central nervous system). THC causes
brain cells to release dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical that is involved with
mood and thinking. It is also called the feel-good brain chemical. Using
marijuana may cause pleasurable effects such as:

      * Feeling "high" (pleasant sensations) or very relaxed (marijuana intoxication)
      * Having an increased appetite ("the munchies")
      * Increased sensations of sight, hearing, and taste 

How fast you feel the effects of marijuana depends on how you use it:

      * If you breathe in marijuana smoke (such as from a joint or pipe), you may feel the effects within seconds to several minutes.
      * If you eat foods containing the drug as an ingredient, such as brownies, you may feel the effects within 30 to 60 minutes. 

## Harmful Effects of Marijuana

Marijuana can also have unpleasant effects:

      * It can affect your mood -- You may have feelings of panic or anxiety.
      * It can affect how your brain processes things around you -- You may have false beliefs (delusions), become very fearful or confused, see or hear things that are not there (hallucinations).
      * It can cause your brain not to work as well -- For example, you may not be able to concentrate or pay attention at work or at school. Your memory may weaken. Your coordination may be affected such as with driving a car. Your judgment and decision making can also be affected. As a result, you may do risky things such as drive while high or have unsafe sex. 

Marijuana's other health effects include:

      * Bloodshot eyes
      * Increased heart rate and blood pressure
      * Infections such as sinusitis, bronchitis, and asthma in heavy users
      * Irritation of the airways causing narrowing or spasms
      * Sore throat
      * Weakening of the immune system 

## Marijuana can be Addictive

Some people who use marijuana get addicted to it. This means their body and
mind are dependent on marijuana. They are not able to control their use of it
and they need it to get through daily life.

Addiction can lead to tolerance. Tolerance means you need more and more
marijuana to get the same high feeling. And if you try to stop using, your
mind and body may have reactions. These are called withdrawal symptoms, and
may include:

      * Feeling fear, unease, and worry (anxiety)
      * Feeling stirred up, excited, tense, confused, or irritable (agitation)
      * Trouble falling or staying asleep 

## Treatment Options

Treatment begins with recognizing there is a problem. Once you decide you want
to do something about your marijuana use, the next step is getting help and
support.

Treatment programs use behavior change techniques through counseling (talk
therapy). Some programs use 12-step meetings to help people learn how not to
relapse. The goal is to help you understand your behaviors and why you use
marijuana. Involving family and friends during counseling can help support you
and keep you from going back to using (relapsing).

If you have severe withdrawal symptoms, you may need to stay at a residential
treatment program. There, your health and safety can be monitored as you
recover.

At this time, there is no medicine that can help reduce the use of marijuana
by blocking its effects. But, scientists are researching such medicines.

## Your Ongoing Recovery

As you recover, focus on the following to help prevent relapse:

      * Keep going to your treatment sessions.
      * Find new activities and goals to replace ones that involved your marijuana use.
      * Spend more time with family and friends you lost touch with while you were using marijuana. Consider not seeing friends who are still using marijuana.
      * Exercise and eat healthy foods. Taking care of your body helps it heal from the harmful effects of marijuana. You will feel better, too.
      * Avoid triggers. These can be people with whom you used marijuana. They can also be places, things, or emotions that can make you want to use marijuana again.

## Resources

Resources that may help you on your road to recovery include:

      * Marijuana Anonymous -- www.marijuana-anonymous.org
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org

Your workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good resource.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or someone you
know is addicted to marijuana and needs help stopping. Also call if you are
having withdrawal symptoms that concern you.

## Alternative Names

Substance abuse - marijuana; Drug abuse - marijuana; Drug use - marijuana;
Cannabis; Grass; Hashish; Mary Jane; Pot; Weed

## References

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
50.

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; Health and Medicine
Division; Board on Population Health and Public Health Practice; Committee on
the Health Effects of Marijuana: An Evidence Review and Research Agenda. _The
Health Effects of Cannabis and Cannabinoids: The Current State of Evidence and
Recommendations for Research_. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2017.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Marijuana.
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/what-marijuana.
Updated May 2018. Accessed June 1, 2018.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team. Editorial update on 01-21-2020.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Marijuana

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

