Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000899.htm    
                                Description: Marijuana is best known as a drug that people smoke or eat to get high. It is derived from the plant Cannabis sativa. Possession of marijuana is illegal under federal law. Medical marijuana refers to using    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medical marijuana

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000899.htm

# Medical marijuana

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Marijuana is best known as a drug that people smoke or eat to get high. It is
derived from the plant _Cannabis sativa_. Possession of marijuana is illegal
under federal law. Medical marijuana refers to using marijuana to treat
certain medical conditions. In the United States, about half of the states
have legalized marijuana for medical use.

## How Does Medical Marijuana Work?

Medical marijuana may be:

      * Smoked
      * Vaporized
      * Eaten
      * Taken as a liquid extract 

Marijuana leaves and buds contain substances called cannabinoids. THC is a
cannabinoid that can affect the brain and change your mood or consciousness.

Different varieties of marijuana contain different amounts of cannabinoids.
This sometimes makes the effects of medical marijuana hard to predict or
control. The effects also may differ depending on whether it is smoked or
eaten.

## What Conditions can it Help?

Medical marijuana may be used to:

      *  **Ease pain.** This includes different types of chronic pain, including pain from nerve damage.
      *  **Control nausea and vomiting.** The most common use is for nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy for cancer.
      *  **Make a person feel like eating.** This helps people who do not eat enough and lose weight due to other illnesses, such as HIV/AIDS and cancer. 

Some small studies show that marijuana might relieve symptoms in people who
have:

      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Crohn disease
      * Inflammatory bowel disease
      * Epilepsy 

Smoking marijuana lowers pressure inside the eyes, a problem linked to
glaucoma. But the effect does not last long. Other glaucoma medicines may work
better to treat the disease.

## How do People get Medical Marijuana?

In states where medical marijuana is legal, you need a written statement from
your health care provider to get the drug. It must explain that you need it to
treat a medical condition or to ease side effects. Your name will be put on a
list that lets you buy marijuana from an authorized seller.

## What Medical Conditions Qualify?

You can only get medical marijuana if you have certain conditions. The
conditions marijuana can treat varies from state to state. The most common
ones include:

      * Cancer
      * HIV/AIDS
      * Seizures and epilepsy
      * Glaucoma
      * Severe chronic pain
      * Severe nausea
      * Extreme weight loss and weakness (wasting syndrome)
      * Severe muscle spasms
      * Multiple sclerosis 

## Side Effects

Possible physical symptoms from using marijuana include:

      * A fast or irregular heartbeat
      * Dizziness
      * Slow reaction times
      * Drowsiness

Possible mental or emotional side effects include:

      * A strong feeling of happiness or well-being
      * Short-term memory loss
      * Trouble concentrating
      * Confusion
      * Decreased or increased anxiety 

## Who Should not use Medical Marijuana?

Providers are not allowed to prescribe medical marijuana to people younger
than age 18. Other people who should not use medical marijuana include:

      * People with heart disease
      * Pregnant women
      * People with a history of psychosis 

Other concerns linked to marijuana use include:

      * Dangerous driving or other risky behaviors
      * Lung irritation
      * Dependence or addiction to marijuana 

## Prescription Drugs Based on Marijuana Compounds

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved marijuana for
treating any health conditions.

However, the FDA has approved two prescription medicines that contain man-made
cannabinoids.

      * **Dronabinol (Marinol).** This drug treats nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy and loss of appetite and weight loss in people with HIV/AIDS.
      *  **Nabilone (Cesamet).** This drug treats nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy in people who have not had relief from other treatments. 

Unlike medical marijuana, the active ingredient in these drugs can be
controlled, so you always know how much you get in a dose.

## Alternative Names

Pot; Grass; Cannabis; Weed; Hash; Ganja

## References

American Cancer Society website. Marijuana and cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/complementary-and-
alternative-medicine/marijuana-and-cancer.html. Updated March 16, 2017.
Accessed January 23, 2018.

Fife TD, Moawad H, Moschonas C, Shepard K, Hammond N. Clinical perspectives on
medical marijuana (cannabis) for neurologic disorders. _Neurol Clin Pract_.
2015;5(4):344-351. PMID: 26336632 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26336632.

Hill KP. Medical marijuana for treatment of chronic pain and other medical and
psychiatric problems: a clinical review. _JAMA_. 2015;313(24):2474-2483. PMID:
26103031 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26103031.

Lutge EE, Gray A, Siegfried N. The medical use of cannabis for reducing
morbidity and mortality in patients with HIV/AIDS. _Cochrane Database Syst
Rev_. 2013;4:CD005175. PMID: 23633327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23633327.

Naftali T, Mechulam R, Lev LB, Konikoff FM. Cannabis for inflammatory bowel
disease. _Dig Dis_. 2014;32(4):468-474. PMID: 24969296
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24969296.

National Cancer Institute website. Cannabis and cannabinoids (PDQÂ®) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/cam/hp/cannabis-
pdq#section/all. Updated April 7, 2017. Accessed January 23, 2018.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Marijuana

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

