Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000952.htm    
                                Description: Marijuana (&quot;pot&quot;) intoxication is the euphoria, relaxation, and sometimes undesirable side effects that can occur when people use marijuana.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Marijuana intoxication

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000952.htm

# Marijuana intoxication

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Marijuana ("pot") intoxication is the euphoria, relaxation, and sometimes
undesirable side effects that can occur when people use marijuana.

Some states in the Unites States permit marijuana to be used legally to treat
certain medical problems. Other states have also legalized its use.

## Symptoms

The intoxicating effects of marijuana include relaxation, sleepiness, and mild
euphoria (getting high).

Smoking marijuana leads to fast and predictable signs and symptoms. Eating
marijuana can cause slower, and sometimes less predictable, effects.

Marijuana can cause undesirable side effects, which increase with higher
doses. These side effects include:

      * Decreased short-term memory
      * Dry mouth
      * Impaired perception and motor skills
      * Red eyes 

More serious side effects include panic, paranoia, or acute psychosis, which
may be more common with new users or in those who already have a psychiatric
disease.

The degree of these side effects varies from person to person, as well as with
the amount of marijuana used.

Marijuana is often cut with hallucinogens and other more dangerous drugs that
have more serious side effects than marijuana. These side effects may include:

      * Sudden high blood pressure with headache
      * Chest pain and heart rhythm disturbances
      * Extreme hyperactivity and physical violence
      * Heart attack
      * Seizures
      * Stroke
      * Sudden collapse (cardiac arrest) from heart rhythm disturbances

## Treatment

Treatment and care involves:

      * Preventing injury
      * Reassuring those who have panic reactions due to the drug 

Sedatives, called benzodiazepines, such as diazepam (Valium) or lorazepam
(Ativan), may be given. Children who have more serious symptoms or those with
serious side effects may need to stay in the hospital for treatment. Treatment
may include heart and brain monitoring.

In the emergency department, the patient may receive:

      * Activated charcoal, if the drug has been eaten
      * Blood and urine tests
      * Breathing support, including oxygen (and breathing machine, especially if there has been a mixed overdose)
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Fluids through the vein (intravenous, or IV)
      * Medicines to relieve symptoms (see above) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Uncomplicated marijuana intoxication rarely needs medical advice or treatment.
Occasionally, serious symptoms occur. However, these symptoms are rare and
usually associated with other drugs or compounds mixed in with marijuana.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If someone who has been using marijuana develops any of the symptoms of
intoxication, has trouble breathing, or cannot be awakened, call 911 or your
local emergency number. If the person has stopped breathing or has no pulse,
begin cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and continue it until help arrives.

## Alternative Names

Cannabis intoxication; Intoxication - marijuana (cannabis); Pot; Mary Jane;
Weed; Grass; Cannabis

## References

Brust JCM. Effects of drug abuse on the nervous system. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Iwanicki JL. Hallucinogens. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 150.

## Review Date 12/18/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Marijuana](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Marijuana_thumb.jpg)Marijuana
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

