Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000404.htm    
                                Description: Malnutrition is the condition that occurs when your body does not get enough nutrients.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malnutrition

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000404.htm

# Malnutrition

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malnutrition is the condition that occurs when your body does not get enough
nutrients.

## Causes

There are many types of malnutrition, and they have different causes. Some
causes include:

      * Poor diet
      * Starvation due to food not being available
      * Eating disorders
      * Problems with digesting food or absorbing nutrients from food
      * Certain medical conditions that make a person unable to eat 

You may develop malnutrition if you lack a single vitamin in your diet.
Lacking a vitamin or other nutrient is called a deficiency.

Sometimes malnutrition is very mild and causes no symptoms. Other times it can
be so severe that the damage it does to the body is permanent, even though you
survive.

Poverty, natural disasters, political problems, and war can all contribute to
malnutrition and starvation, and not just in developing countries.

Some health conditions that are related to malnutrition are:

      * Malabsorption
      * Hunger
      * Beriberi
      * Binge eating
      * Deficiency - Vitamin A
      * Deficiency - Vitamin B1 (thiamine)
      * Deficiency - Vitamin B2 (riboflavin)
      * Deficiency - Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine)
      * Deficiency - Vitamin B9 (folacin)
      * Deficiency - Vitamin E
      * Deficiency - Vitamin K
      * Eating disordersÂ Â 
      * Kwashiorkor
      * Megaloblastic anemia
      * Pellagra
      * Rickets
      * Scurvy
      * Spina bifida

Malnutrition is a significant problem all over the world, especially among
children. It is very harmful to children because it affects brain development
and other growth. Children who suffer from malnutrition may have lifelong
problems.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of malnutrition vary and depend on its cause. General symptoms
include fatigue, dizziness, and weight loss.

## Exams and Tests

Testing depends on the specific disorder. Most health care providers will do a
nutritional assessment and blood work.

## Treatment

Treatment most often consists of:

      * Replacing missing nutrients
      * Treating symptoms as needed
      * Treating any underlying medical condition

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause of the malnutrition. Most nutritional
deficiencies can be corrected. However, if malnutrition is caused by a medical
condition, that illness has to be treated in order to reverse the nutritional
deficiency.

## Possible Complications

If untreated, malnutrition can lead to mental or physical disability, illness,
and possibly death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

TalkÂ to your provider about the risk of malnutrition. Treatment is necessary
if you or your child have any changes in the body's ability to function.
Contact your provider if these symptoms develop:

      * Fainting
      * Lack of menstruation
      * Lack of growth in children
      * Rapid hair loss

## Prevention

Eating a well-balanced diet helps to prevent most forms of malnutrition.

## Alternative Names

Nutrition - inadequate

## Images

      * ![myPlate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1055t.jpg)myPlate

## References

Ashworth A. Nutrition, food security, and health. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;2020:chap 57.

Becker PJ, Nieman Carney L, Corkins MR, et al. Consensus statement of the
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics/American Society for Parenteral and Enteral
Nutrition: indicators recommended for the identification and documentation of
pediatric malnutrition (undernutrition). _J Acad Nutr Diet_.
2014;114(12):1988-2000. PMID: 2548748 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25458748.

Manary MJ, Trehan I. Protein-energy malnutrition. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 215.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malnutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Malnutrition_thumb.jpg)Malnutrition
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

