Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001604.htm    
                                Description: Kwashiorkor is a form of malnutrition that occurs when there is not enough protein in the diet.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kwashiorkor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001604.htm

# Kwashiorkor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kwashiorkor is a form of malnutrition that occurs when there is not enough
protein in the diet.

## Causes

Kwashiorkor is most common in areas where there is:

      * Famine
      * Limited food supply
      * Low levels of education (when people do not understand how to eat a proper diet) 

This disease is more common in very poor countries. It often occurs during a
drought or other natural disaster, or during political unrest. These
conditions are responsible for a lack of food, which leads to malnutrition.

Kwashiorkor is rare in children in the United States. There are only isolated
cases. However, one government estimate suggests that as many as 50% of
elderly people in nursing homes in the United States do not get enough protein
in their diet.

When kwashiorkor does occur in the United States, it is most often a sign of
child abuse and severe neglect.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Changes in skin pigment
      * Decreased muscle mass
      * Diarrhea
      * Failure to gain weight and grow
      * Fatigue
      * Hair changes (change in color or texture)
      * Increased and more severe infections due to damaged immune system
      * Irritability
      * Large belly that sticks out (protrudes)
      * Lethargy or apathy
      * Loss of muscle mass
      * Rash (dermatitis)
      * Shock (late stage)
      * Swelling (edema) 

## Exams and Tests

The physical exam may show an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly) and general
swelling.

Tests may include:

      * Arterial blood gas
      * BUN
      * Complete blood count (CBC) 
      * Creatinine clearance
      * Serum creatinine
      * Serum potassium
      * Total protein levels 
      * Urinalysis

## Treatment

Getting more calories and protein will correct kwashiorkor, if treatment is
started early enough. However, children who have had this condition will never
reach their full potential for height and growth.

Treatment depends on the severity of the condition. People who are in shock
need treatment right away to restore blood volume and maintain blood pressure.

Calories are given first in the form of carbohydrates, simple sugars, and
fats. Proteins are started after other sources of calories have already
provided energy. Vitamin and mineral supplements are essential.

Since the person will have been without much food for a long period of time,
eating can cause problems, especially if the calories are too high at first.
Food must be reintroduced slowly.

Many malnourished children will develop intolerance to milk sugar (lactose
intolerance). They will need to be given supplements with the enzyme lactase
so that they can tolerate milk products.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Getting treatment early generally leads to good results. Treating kwashiorkor
in its late stages will improve the child's general health. However, the child
may be left with permanent physical and mental problems. If treatment is not
given or comes too late, this condition is life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Coma
      * Permanent mental and physical disability
      * Shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has symptoms of kwashiorkor.

## Prevention

To prevent kwashiorkor, make sure the diet has enough carbohydrates, fat (at
least 10% of total calories), and protein (12% of total calories).

## Alternative Names

Protein malnutrition; Protein-calorie malnutrition; Malignant malnutrition

## Images

      * ![Kwashiorkor symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9563t.jpg)Kwashiorkor symptoms

## References

Ashworth A. Nutrition, food security, and health. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 46.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Environmental and nutritional diseases. In: Kumar
V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Manary MJ, Trehan I. Protein-energy malnutrition. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 215.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildNutrition_thumb.jpg)Child
Nutrition _Read more_

![Dietary
Proteins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DietaryProtein_thumb.jpg)Dietary
Proteins _Read more_

![Malnutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Malnutrition_thumb.jpg)Malnutrition
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

