Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000115.htm    
                                Description: Malignant mesothelioma is an uncommon cancerous tumor. It mainly affects the lining of the lung and chest cavity (pleura) or lining of the abdomen (peritoneum). It is due to long-term asbestos exposure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malignant mesothelioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000115.htm

# Malignant mesothelioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malignant mesothelioma is an uncommon cancerous tumor. It mainly affects the
lining of the lung and chest cavity (pleura) or lining of the abdomen
(peritoneum). It is due to long-term asbestos exposure.

## Causes

Long-term exposure to asbestos is the biggest risk factor. Asbestos is a fire-
resistant material. It was once commonly found in insulation, ceiling and
roofing vinyls, cement, and car brakes. Even though many asbestos workers
smoked, experts do not believe smoking itself is a cause of this condition.

Men are affected more often than women. The average age at diagnosis is 60
years. Most people seem to develop the condition about 30 years after being in
contact with the asbestos.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may not appear until 20 to 40 years or longer after exposure to
asbestos, and may include:

      * Abdominal bloating
      * Abdominal pain
      * Chest pain, especially when taking a deep breath
      * Cough 
      * Fatigue 
      * Shortness of breath
      * Weight loss 
      * Fever and sweating

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do an examination and ask the person about their
symptoms and medical history. Tests that may be done include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Chest CT scan
      * Cytology of pleural fluid
      * Open lung biopsy
      * Pleural biopsy

Mesothelioma is often hard to diagnose. Under the microscope, it can be hard
to tell this disease apart from similar conditions and tumors.

## Treatment

Malignant mesothelioma is a difficult cancer to treat.

There is usually no cure, unless the disease is found very early and the tumor
can be completely removed with surgery. Most of the time, when the disease is
diagnosed, it is too advanced for surgery. Chemotherapy or radiation may be
used to reduce symptoms. Combining certain chemotherapy drugs may help
decrease symptoms, but it will not cure the cancer.

Untreated, most people survive about 9 months.

Participating in a clinical trial (test of new treatments), may give the
person more treatment options.

Pain relief, oxygen, and other supportive treatments may also help relieve
symptoms.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group where members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The average survival time varies from 4 to 18 months. Outlook depends on:

      * The stage of the tumor
      * The person's age and general health
      * Whether surgery is an option
      * The person's response to treatment 

You and your family may want to start thinking about end-of-life planning,
such as:

      * Palliative care
      * Hospice care
      * Advance care directives
      * Health care agents

## Possible Complications

Complications of malignant mesothelioma may include:

      * Side effects of chemotherapy or radiation
      * Continued spread of cancer to other organs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of malignant
mesothelioma.

## Prevention

Avoid exposure to asbestos.

## Alternative Names

Mesothelioma - malignant; Malignant pleura mesothelioma (MPM)

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Baas P, Hassan R, Nowak AK, Rice D. Malignant mesothelioma. In: Pass HI, Ball
D, Scagliotti GV, eds. _IASLC Thoracic Oncology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

Broaddus VC, Robinson BWS. Pleural tumors. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 82.

National Cancer Institute website. Malignant mesothelioma treatment (adult)
(PDQ) - Health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/mesothelioma/hp/mesothelioma-treatment-pdq. Updated
November 8, 2019. Accessed November 11, 2019.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 11-11-19: Editorial update.

![Mesothelioma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mesothelioma_thumb.jpg)Mesothelioma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

