Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000116.htm    
                                Description: Solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) is a noncancerousÂ tumor of the lining of the lung and chest cavity, an area called the pleura. SFT used to be called localized fibrous mesothelioma.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Solitary fibrous tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000116.htm

# Solitary fibrous tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) is a noncancerousÂ tumor of the lining of the
lung and chest cavity, an area called the pleura. SFT used to be called
localized fibrous mesothelioma.

## Causes

The exact cause of SFT remains unknown. This type of tumor affects men and
women equally.

## Symptoms

About one half of the people with this type of tumor do not show any symptoms.

If the tumor grows to a large size and pushes on the lung, it can lead to
symptoms, such as:

      * Chest pain
      * Chronic cough
      * Shortness of breath
      * Clubbed appearance of the fingers

## Exams and Tests

SFT is usually found by accident when a chest x-ray is done for other reasons.
If the health care provider suspects SFT, tests will be ordered. These may
include:

      * CT scan of the chest
      * Open lung biopsy

The diagnosis of SFT is difficult compared with the cancerous type of this
disease, called malignant mesothelioma, which is caused by exposure to
asbestos. SFT is not caused by asbestos exposure.

## Treatment

Treatment is usually to remove the tumor.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is expected to be good with prompt treatment. In rare cases, the
tumor may return.

## Possible Complications

Fluid escaping into the membranes around the lungs (pleural effusion) is a
complication.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you notice symptoms of SFT.

## Alternative Names

Mesothelioma - benign; Mesothelioma - fibrous; Pleural fibroma

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Haithcock BE, Zagar TM, Zhang L, Stinchcombe TE. Diseases of the pleura and
mediastinum. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper
JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 73.

Myers JL, Arenberg DA. Benign lung tumors. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 56.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mesothelioma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mesothelioma_thumb.jpg)Mesothelioma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

