Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001219.htm    
                                Description: Absence of a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Absent menstrual periods - secondary

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001219.htm

# Absent menstrual periods - secondary

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Absence of a woman's monthly menstrual period is called amenorrhea. Secondary
amenorrhea is when a woman who has been having normal menstrual cycles stops
getting her periods for 6 months or longer.

## Causes

Secondary amenorrhea can occur due to natural changes in the body. For
example, the most common cause of secondary amenorrhea is pregnancy.
Breastfeeding and menopause are also common, but natural, causes.

Women who take birth control pills or who receive hormone shots such as Depo-
Provera may not have any monthly bleeding. When they stop taking these
hormones, their periods may not return for more than 6 months.

You are more likely to have absent periodsÂ if you:

      * Are obese
      * Exercise too much and for long periods of time
      * Have very low body fat (less than 15% to 17%)
      * Have severe anxiety or emotional distress
      * Lose a lot of weight suddenly (for example, from strict or extreme diets or after gastric bypass surgery) 

Other causes include:

      * Brain (pituitary) tumors
      * Drugs for cancer treatment
      * Drugs to treat schizophrenia or psychosis
      * Overactive thyroid gland
      * Polycystic ovarian syndrome
      * Reduced function of the ovaries 

Also, procedures such as a dilation and curettage (D and C) can cause scar
tissue to form. This tissue may cause a woman to stop menstruating. This is
called Asherman syndrome. Scarring may also be caused by some severe pelvic
infections.

## Symptoms

In addition to having no menstrual periods, other symptoms can include:

      * Breast size changes
      * Weight gain or weight loss
      * Discharge from the breast or change in breast size
      * Acne and increased hair growth in a male pattern
      * Vaginal dryness
      * Voice changes 

If amenorrhea is caused by a pituitary tumor, there may be other symptoms
related to the tumor, such as vision loss and headache.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam and pelvic exam must be done to check for pregnancy. A
pregnancy test will be done.

Blood tests may be done to check hormone levels, including:

      * Estradiol levels
      * Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH level)
      * Luteinizing hormone (LH level)
      * Prolactin level
      * Serum hormone levels, such as testosterone levels
      * Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) 

Other tests that may be performed include:

      * CT scan or MRI scan of the head to look for tumors
      * Biopsy of the lining of the uterus
      * Genetic testing
      * Ultrasound of the pelvis or hysterosonogram (pelvic ultrasound that involves putting saline solution inside the uterus) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of amenorrhea. Normal monthly periodsÂ most
oftenÂ return after the condition is treated.

A lack of menstrual period due to obesity, vigorous exercise, or weight loss
may respond to a change in exercise routine or weight control (gain or loss,
as needed).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause of amenorrhea.Â Many of the conditions that
cause secondary amenorrhea will respond to treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your primary health care provider or women's health care provider if you
have missed more than one period so that you can get diagnosed and treated, if
needed.

## Alternative Names

Amenorrhea - secondary; No periods - secondary; Absent periods - secondary;
Absent menses - secondary; Absence of periods - secondary

## Images

      * ![Secondary amenorrhea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17131t.jpg)Secondary amenorrhea
      * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)
      * ![Absence of menstruation \(amenorrhea\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17088t.jpg)Absence of menstruation (amenorrhea)

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Lobo RA. Primary and secondary amenorrhea and precocious puberty: etiology,
diagnostic evaluation, management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea
FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 38.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Menstruation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menstruation_thumb.jpg)Menstruation
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

