Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001218.htm    
                                Description: Absence of a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Absent menstrual periods - primary

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001218.htm

# Absent menstrual periods - primary

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Absence of a woman's monthly menstrual period is called amenorrhea.

Primary amenorrhea is when a girl has not yet started her monthly periods, and
she:

      * Has gone through other normal changes that occur during puberty
      * Is older than 15

## Causes

Most girls begin their periods between ages 9 and 18. The average is around 12
years old. If no periods have occurred when a girl is older than 15, further
testing may be needed. The need is more urgent if she has gone through other
normal changes that occur during puberty.

Being born with incompletely formed genital or pelvic organs can lead to a
lack of menstrual periods. Some of these defects include:

      * Blockages or narrowing of the cervix
      * Hymen that has no opening
      * Missing uterus or vagina
      * Vaginal septum (a wall that divides the vagina into 2 sections)

Hormones play a big role in a woman's menstrual cycle. Hormone problems can
occur when:

      * Changes occur to the parts of the brain where hormones that help manage the menstrual cycle are produced.
      * The ovaries are not working correctly.

Either of these problems may be due to:

      * Anorexia (loss of appetite)
      * Chronic or long-term illnesses, such as cystic fibrosis or heart disease
      * Genetic defects or disorders
      * Infections that occur in the womb or after birth
      * Other birth defects
      * Poor nutrition
      * Tumors 

In many cases, the cause of primary amenorrhea is not known.

## Symptoms

A female with amenorrhea will have no menstrual flow. She may haveÂ other
signs of puberty.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam to check for birth
defects of the vagina or uterus.

The provider will ask questions about:

      * Your medical history
      * Medicines and supplements you may be taking
      * How much exercise you do
      * Your eating habits 

A pregnancy test will be done.

Blood tests to measure different hormone levels may include:

      * Estradiol
      * FSH
      * LH
      * Prolactin
      * 17 hydroxyprogesterone
      * Serum progesterone
      * Serum testosterone level
      * TSH
      * T3 and T4

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Chromosome or genetic testing
      * Head CT scan or head MRI scan to look for brain tumors
      * Pelvic ultrasound to look for birth defects 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the missing period. Lack of periods that is
caused by birth defects may require hormone medicines, surgery, or both.

If the amenorrhea is caused by a tumor in the brain:

      * Medicines may shrink certain types of tumors.
      * Surgery to remove the tumor may also be needed.
      * Radiation therapy is usually only done when other treatments have not worked. 

If the problem is caused by a systemic disease, treatment of the disease may
allow menstruation to begin.

If the cause is the bulimia, anorexia or too much exercise, periods will often
begin when the weight returns to normal or the exercise level is decreased.

If the amenorrhea cannot be corrected, hormone medicines can sometimes be
used. Medicines can help the woman feel more like her friends and female
family members. They can also protect the bones from becoming too thin
(osteoporosis).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause of the amenorrhea and whether it can be
corrected with treatment or lifestyle changes.

Periods are not likely to start on their own if the amenorrhea was caused byÂ
one of the following conditions:

      * Birth defects of the female organs
      * Craniopharyngioma (a tumor near the pituitary gland at the base of the brain)
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Genetic disorders 

You may have emotional distress because you feel different from friends or
family. Or, you may worry that you might not be able to have children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your daughter is older than 15 and has not yet begun
menstruating, or if she is 14 and shows no other signs of puberty.

## Alternative Names

Primary amenorrhea; No periods - primary; Absent periods - primary; Absent
menses - primary; Absence of periods - primary

## Images

      * ![Primary amenorrhea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17125t.jpg)Primary amenorrhea
      * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)
      * ![Absence of menstruation \(amenorrhea\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17088t.jpg)Absence of menstruation (amenorrhea)

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Lobo RA. Primary and secondary amenorrhea and precocious puberty: etiology,
diagnostic evaluation, management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea
FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 38.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Menstruation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menstruation_thumb.jpg)Menstruation
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

