Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000954.htm    
                                Description: Conversion disorder is a mental condition in which a person has blindness, paralysis, or other nervous system (neurologic) symptoms that cannot be explained by medical evaluation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Conversion disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000954.htm

# Conversion disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Conversion disorder is a mental condition in which a person has blindness,
paralysis, or other nervous system (neurologic) symptoms that cannot be
explained by medical evaluation.

## Causes

Conversion disorder symptoms may occur because of a psychological conflict.

Symptoms usually begin suddenly after a stressful experience. People are at
risk of conversion disorder if they also have:

      * A medical illness
      * A dissociative disorder (escape from reality that is not on purpose)
      * A personality disorder (inability to manage feelings and behaviors that are expected in certain social situations) 

People who have conversion disorder are not making up their symptoms in order
to obtain shelter, for example (malingering). They are also not intentionally
injuring themselves or lying about their symptoms just to become a patient
(factitious disorder). Some health care providers falsely believe that
conversion disorder is not a real condition and may tell people that the
problem is all in their head. But this condition is real. It causes distress
and cannot be turned on and off at will.

The physical symptoms are thought to be an attempt to resolve the conflict the
person feels inside. For example, a woman who believes it is not acceptable to
have violent feelings may suddenly feel numbness in her arms after becoming so
angry that she wanted to hit someone. Instead of allowing herself to have
violent thoughts about hitting someone, she experiences the physical symptom
of numbness in her arms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a conversion disorder include the loss of one or more bodily
functions, such as:

      * Blindness
      * Inability to speak
      * Numbness
      * Paralysis 

Common signs of conversion disorder include:

      * A debilitating symptom that begins suddenly
      * History of a psychological problem that gets better after the symptom appears
      * Lack of concern that usually occurs with a severe symptom 

## Exams and Tests

The provider will do a physical exam and may order diagnostic tests. These are
to make sure there are no physical causes for the symptom.

## Treatment

Talk therapy and stress management training may help reduce symptoms.

The affected body part or physical function may need physical or occupational
therapy until the symptoms go away. For example, a paralyzed arm must be
exercised to keep the muscles strong.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms usually last for days to weeks and may suddenly go away. Usually the
symptom itself is not life threatening, but complications can be debilitating.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider or mental health professional if you or someone you know has
symptoms of a conversion disorder.

## Alternative Names

Functional neurological symptom disorder; Hysterical neurosis

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Conversion disorder (functional neurological
symptom disorder). _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders:
DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:318-321.

Cottencin O. Conversion disorders: psychiatric and psychotherapeutic aspects.
_Neurophysiol Clin_. 2014;44(4):405-410. PMID: 25306080
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25306080.

Gerstenblith TA, Kontos N. Somatic symptom disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mental
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MentalDisorder_thumb.jpg)Mental
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

