Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chroniclymphocyticleukemia.html    
                                Description: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or CLL is cancer of the white blood cells, where abnormal cells are made.  This makes it hard for the blood to do its work.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chroniclymphocyticleukemia.html

#  Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

Also called: CLL

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. White blood cells help your body
fight infection. Your blood cells form in your bone marrow. In leukemia, the
bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells. These cells crowd out the
healthy blood cells, making it hard for blood to do its work. In chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), there are too many lymphocytes, a type of white
blood cell.

CLL is the second most common type of leukemia in adults. It often occurs
during or after middle age and is rare in children.

Usually CLL does not cause any symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may
include

    * Painless swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, underarm, stomach, or groin
    * Fatigue
    * Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs
    * Fever and infection
    * Weight loss

Tests that examine the blood, bone marrow, and lymph nodes diagnose CLL. Your
doctor may choose to just monitor you until symptoms appear or change.
Treatments include radiation therapy, chemotherapy, surgery to remove the
spleen, and targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances
that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * General Information about Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Blood Count Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Bone Marrow Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Lab and Imaging Tests (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Bone Marrow Tests? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * What Are the Risk Factors for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood Transfusion (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Choosing a Blood Cancer Specialist (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) \- PDF
    * Immunotherapy (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Integrative Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Therapies (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia by Risk Group (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options by Stage (Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Supportive Care for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Chronic B-Cell Leukemias and Agent Orange (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * What Should You Ask Your Doctor about Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma (CLL/SLL) (Lymphoma Research Foundation)
    * Leukemia - B-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia and Hairy Cell Leukemia (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Leukemia -- Chronic T-Cell Lymphocytic (American Society of Clinical Oncology)

## Genetics

    * Do We Know What Causes Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Cancer Statistics: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What Are the Key Statistics for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Leukemia, Lymphoid ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Types of Treatment: Clinical Trials (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: CAR Natural Killer Cell Therapy Safe and Effective in First Trial.
    * Article: Use of CAR-Transduced Natural Killer Cells in CD19-Positive Lymphoid Tumors.
    * Article: Tumour lysis syndrome in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia treated with...
    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * B-cell leukemia/lymphoma panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * B and T cell screen
    * B-cell leukemia/lymphoma panel
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Fibrinopeptide A blood test
    * Immunoelectrophoresis - blood

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Acute Myeloid Leukemia
    * Childhood Leukemia
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
    * Leukemia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia is
the National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 19 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

