Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007474.htm    
                                Description: Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) uses an electric current to treat depression and some other mental illnesses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Electroconvulsive therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007474.htm

# Electroconvulsive therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) uses an electric current to treat depression
and some other mental illnesses.

## Description

During ECT, the electric current triggers a seizure in the brain. Doctors
believe that the seizure activity may help the brain "rewire" itself, which
helps relieve symptoms. ECT is generally safe and effective.

ECT is most often done in a hospital while you are asleep and pain free
(general anesthesia):

      * You receive medicine to relax you (muscle relaxant). You also receive another medicine (short-acting anesthetic) to put you briefly to sleep and prevent you from feeling pain.
      * Electrodes are placed on your scalp. Two electrodes monitor your brain activity. Another two electrodes are used to deliver the electric current.
      * When you are asleep, a small amount of electric current is delivered to your head to cause seizure activity in the brain. It lasts for about 40 seconds. You receive medicine to prevent the seizure from spreading throughout your body. As a result, your hands or feet move only slightly during the procedure.
      * ECT is usually given once every 2 to 5 days for a total of 6 to 12 sessions. Sometimes more sessions are needed.
      * Several minutes after the treatment, you wake up. You DO NOT remember the treatment. You are taken to a recovery area. There, the health care team monitors you closely. When you have recovered, you can go home.
      * You need to have an adult drive you home. Be sure to arrange this ahead of time.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

ECT is a highly effective treatment for depression, most commonly severe
depression. It can be very helpful for treating depression in people who:

      * Are having delusions or other psychotic symptoms with their depression
      * Are pregnant and severely depressed
      * Are suicidal
      * Can't take antidepressant drugs
      * Haven't responded fully to antidepressant drugs

Less often, ECT is used for conditions such as mania, catatonia, and psychosis
that DO NOT improve enough with other treatments.

## Risks

ECT has received bad press, in part because of its potential for causing
memory problems. Since ECT was introduced in the 1930s, the dose of
electricity used in the procedure has been decreased significantly. This has
greatly reduced the side effects of this procedure, including memory loss.

However, ECT can still cause some side effects, including:

      * Confusion that generally lasts for only a short period of time
      * Headache
      * Low blood pressure (hypotension) or high blood pressure (hypertension)
      * Memory loss (permanent memory loss beyond the time of the procedure is much less common than it was in the past)
      * Muscle soreness
      * Nausea
      * Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) or other heart problems 

Some medical conditions put people at greater risk for side effects from ECT.
Discuss your medical conditions and any concerns with your doctor when
deciding whether ECT is right for you.

## Before the Procedure

Because general anesthesia is used for this procedure, you will be asked not
to eat or drink before ECT.

Ask your provider whether you should take any daily medicines in the morning
before ECT.

## After the Procedure

After a successful course of ECT, you will receive medicines or less frequent
ECT to reduce the risk of another depression episode.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people report mild confusion and headache after ECT. These symptoms
should only last for a short while.

## Alternative Names

Shock treatment; Shock therapy; ECT; Depression - ECT; Bipolar - ECT

## References

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), Bibbins-Domingo K, et al.
Screening for depression in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;315(4):380-387. PMID: 26813211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26813211.

Welch CA. Electroconvulsive therapy. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Depression_thumb.jpg)Depression
_Read more_

![Mental
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MentalDisorder_thumb.jpg)Mental
Disorders _Read more_

![Psychotic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsychoticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Psychotic
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

