Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000955.htm    
                                Description: Somatic symptom disorder (SSD) occurs when a person feels extreme, exaggerated anxiety about physical symptoms. The person has such intense thoughts, feelings, and behaviors related to the symptoms, that    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Somatic symptom disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000955.htm

# Somatic symptom disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Somatic symptom disorder (SSD) occurs when a person feels extreme, exaggerated
anxiety about physical symptoms. The person has such intense thoughts,
feelings, and behaviors related to the symptoms, that they feel they cannot do
some of the activities of daily life. They may believe routine medical
problems are life threatening. This anxiety may not improve despite normal
test results and reassurance from the health care provider.

A person with SSD is not faking their symptoms. The pain and other problems
are real. They may be caused by a medical problem. Often, no physical cause
can be found. However, it is the extreme reaction and behaviors about the
symptoms that are the main problem.

## Causes

SSD usually begins before age 30. It occurs more often in women than in men.
It's not clear why some people develop this condition. Certain factors may be
involved:

      * Having a negative outlook
      * Being more physically and emotionally sensitive to pain and other sensations
      * Family history or upbringing
      * Genetics 

People who have a history of physical or sexual abuse may be more likely to
have this disorder. But not everyone with SSD has a history of abuse.

SSD is similar to illness anxiety disorder (hypochondria). This is when people
are overly anxious about becoming sick or developing a serious disease. They
fully expect they will become very ill at some point. Unlike SSD, with illness
anxiety disorder, there are few or no actual physical symptoms.

## Symptoms

Physical symptoms that can occur with SSD may include:

      * Pain
      * Fatigue or weakness
      * Shortness of breath

Symptoms may be mild to severe. There may be one or more symptoms. They may
come and go or change. Symptoms may be due to a medical condition but they
also may have no clear cause.

How people feel and behave in response to these physical sensations are the
main symptoms of SSD. These reactions must persist for 6 months or more.
People with SSD may:

      * Feel extreme anxiety about symptoms
      * Feel concern that mild symptoms are a sign of serious disease
      * Go to the doctor for multiple tests and procedures, but not believe the results
      * Feel that the doctor does not take their symptoms seriously enough or has not done a good job treating the problem
      * Spend a lot of time and energy dealing with health concerns
      * Have trouble functioning because of thoughts, feelings, and behaviors about symptoms 

## Exams and Tests

You will have a complete physical exam. Your provider may do certain tests to
find any physical causes. The types of tests that are done depend on what
symptoms you have.

Your provider may refer you to a mental health provider. The mental health
provider may do further testing.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control your symptoms and help you function in
life.

Having a supportive relationship with your provider is vital for your
treatment.

      * You should have only one primary care provider. This will help you avoid having unneeded tests and procedures.
      * You should see your provider regularly to review your symptoms and how you are coping.

You may also see a mental health provider (therapist). It's important to see a
therapist who has experience treating SSD. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a
type of talk therapy that can help treat SSD. Working with a therapist can
help relieve your pain and other symptoms. During therapy, you will learn to:

      * Look at your feelings and beliefs about health and your symptoms
      * Find ways to reduce stress and anxiety about symptoms
      * Stop focusing as much on your physical symptoms
      * Recognize what seems to make the pain or other symptoms worse 
      * Learn how to cope with the pain or other symptoms
      * Stay active and social, even if you still have pain or other symptoms
      * Function better in your daily life

Your therapist will also treat depression or other mental health illnesses you
may have. You may take antidepressants to help relieve anxiety and depression.

You should not be told that your symptoms are imaginary or all in your head.
Your provider should work with you to manage both physical and emotional
symptoms.

## Possible Complications

If not treated, you may have:

      * Trouble functioning in life
      * Problems with family, friends, and work
      * Poor health
      * An increased risk for depression and suicide
      * Money problems due to the cost of excess office visits and tests 

SSD is a long-term (chronic) condition. Working with your providers and
following your treatment plan is important for managing with this disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You should contact your provider if you:

      * Feel so concerned about physical symptoms that you can't function
      * Have symptoms of anxiety or depression 

## Prevention

Counseling may help people who are prone toÂ SSD learn other ways of dealing
with stress. This may help reduce the intensity of symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Somatic symptom and related disorders; Somatization disorder; Somatiform
disorders; Briquet syndrome; Illness anxiety disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Somatic symptom disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:311-315.

Gerstenblith TA, Kontos N. Somatic symptom disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/24/2019

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mental
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MentalDisorder_thumb.jpg)Mental
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

