Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000587.htm    
                                Description: Thalassemia is a blood disorder passed down through families (inherited) in which the body makes an abnormal form or inadequate amount of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thalassemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000587.htm

# Thalassemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thalassemia is a blood disorder passed down through families (inherited) in
which the body makes an abnormal form or inadequate amount of hemoglobin.
Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The disorder
results in large numbers of red blood cells being destroyed, which leads to
anemia.

## Causes

Hemoglobin is made of two proteins:

      * Alpha globin
      * Beta globin 

Thalassemia occurs when there is a defect in a gene that helps control
production of one of these proteins.

There are two main types of thalassemia:

      * Alpha thalassemia occurs when a gene or genes related to the alpha globin protein are missing or changed (mutated).
      * Beta thalassemia occurs when similar gene defects affect production of the beta globin protein. 

Alpha thalassemias occur most often in people from Southeast Asia, the Middle
East, China, and in those of African descent.

Beta thalassemias occur most often in people of Mediterranean origin. To a
lesser extent, Chinese, other Asians, and African Americans can be affected.

There are many forms of thalassemia. Each type has many different subtypes.
Both alpha and beta thalassemia include the following two forms:

      * Thalassemia major
      * Thalassemia minor 

You must inherit the gene defect from both parents to develop thalassemia
major.

Thalassemia minor occurs if you receive the faulty gene from only one parent.
People with this form of the disorder are carriers of the disease. Most of the
time, they do not have symptoms.

Beta thalassemia major is also called Cooley anemia.

Risk factors for thalassemia include:

      * Asian, Chinese, Mediterranean, or African American ethnicity
      * Family history of the disorder 

## Symptoms

The most severe form of alpha thalassemia major causes stillbirth (death of
the unborn baby during birth or the late stages of pregnancy).

Children born with beta thalassemia major (Cooley anemia) are normal at birth,
but develop severe anemia during the first year of life.

Other symptoms can include:

      * Bone deformities in the face
      * Fatigue
      * Growth failure
      * Shortness of breath
      * Yellow skin (jaundice) 

People with the minor form of alpha and beta thalassemia have small red blood
cells but no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam to look for an enlarged
spleen.

A blood sample will be sent to a laboratory to be tested.

      * Red blood cells will appear small and abnormally shaped when looked at under a microscope.
      * A complete blood count (CBC) reveals anemia.
      * A test called hemoglobin electrophoresis shows the presence of an abnormal form of hemoglobin.
      * A test called mutational analysis can help detect alpha thalassemia. 

## Treatment

Treatment for thalassemia major often involves regular blood transfusions and
folate supplements.

If you receive blood transfusions, you should not take iron supplements. Doing
so can cause a high amount of iron to build up in the body, which can be
harmful.

People who receive a lot of blood transfusions need a treatment called
chelation therapy. This is done to remove excess iron from the body.

A bone marrow transplant may help treat the disease in some people, especially
children.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Severe thalassemia can cause early death (between ages 20 and 30) due to heart
failure. Getting regular blood transfusions and therapy to remove iron from
the body helps improve the outcome.

Less severe forms of thalassemia often do not shorten lifespan.

You may want to seek genetic counseling if you have a family history of the
condition and are thinking of having children.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, thalassemia major leads to heart failure and liver problems. It
also makes a person more likely to develop infections.

Blood transfusions can help control some symptoms, but carry a risk of side
effects from too much iron.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You or your child has symptoms of thalassemia.
      * You are being treated for the disorder and new symptoms develop. 

## Alternative Names

Mediterranean anemia; Cooley anemia; Beta thalassemia; Alpha thalassemia

## Images

      * ![Thalassemia major](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1498t.jpg)Thalassemia major
      * ![Thalassemia minor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1499t.jpg)Thalassemia minor

## References

Cappellini MD. The thalassemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 162.

Chapin J, Giardina PJ. Thalassemia syndromes. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

DeBaun MR, Frei-Jones MJ, Vichinsky EP. Hemoglobinopatiies. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 462.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Thalassemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Thalassemia_thumb.jpg)Thalassemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

