Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002918.htm    
                                Description: Breast lump removal is surgery to remove a lump that may be breast cancer. Tissue around the lump is also removed. This surgery is called an excisional breast biopsy, or lumpectomy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast lump removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002918.htm

# Breast lump removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast lump removal is surgery to remove a lump that may be breast cancer.
Tissue around the lump is also removed. This surgery is called an excisional
breast biopsy, or lumpectomy.

When a noncancerous tumor such as a fibroadenoma of the breast is removed,
this is also called an excisional breast biopsy, or a lumpectomy.

## Description

Sometimes, the health care provider cannot feel the lump when examining you.
However, it can be seen on imaging results. In this case, a wire localization
will be done before the surgery.

      * A radiologist will use a mammogram or ultrasound to place a needlewire (or needlewires) in or near the abnormal breast area.
      * This will help the surgeon know where the cancer is so that it can be removed.

Breast lump removal is done as an outpatient surgery most of the time. You
will be given general anesthesia (you will be asleep, but pain free) or local
anesthesia (you are awake, but sedated and pain free). The procedure takes
about 1 hour.

The surgeon makes a small cut on your breast. The cancer and some of the
normal breast tissue around it is removed. A pathologist examines a sample of
the removed tissue to make sure all the cancer has been taken out.

      * When no cancer cells are found near the edges of the removed tissue, it is called a clear margin.
      * Your surgeon may also remove some or all of the lymph nodes in your armpit to see if the cancer has spread to them.Â 

Sometimes, small metal clips will be placed inside the breast to mark the area
of tissue removal. This makes the area easy to see on future mammograms. It
also helps guide radiation therapy, when needed.

The surgeon will close your skin with stitches or staples. These may dissolve
or need to be removed later. Rarely, a drain tube may be placed to remove
extra fluid. Your doctor will send the lump to the pathologist for more
testing.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Surgery to remove a breast cancer is most often the first step in treatment.

The choice of which surgery is best for you can be difficult. It may be hard
to know whether lumpectomy or mastectomy (removal of the entire breast) is
best. You and the providers who are treating your breast cancer will decide
together. In general:

      * Lumpectomy is often preferred for smaller breast lumps. This is because it is a smaller procedure and it has about the same chance of curing breast cancer as a mastectomy.Â It is a good option as you get to keep most of your breast tissue that has not been affected by cancer.
      * Mastectomy to remove all breast tissue may be done if the area of cancer is too large or there are multiple tumors which cannot be removed without deforming the breast.

You and your provider should consider:

      * The size of your tumor
      * Where it is in your breast
      * If there is more than one tumor
      * How much of the breast is affected
      * The size of your breastsÂ in relation to the tumor
      * Your age
      * Your family history
      * Your general health, including whether you have reached menopause
      * If you are pregnant

## Risks

Risks for surgery are:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Poor wound healing  

      * Heart attack, stroke, death  

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Risks associated with general anesthesia

The appearance of your breast may change after surgery. You may notice
dimpling, a scar, or a difference in shape between your breasts. Also, the
area of the breast around the incision may be numb.

You may need another procedure to remove more breast tissue if tests show the
cancer is too close to the edge of the tissue already removed.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider:

      * If you could be pregnant
      * What drugs you are taking, even drugs or herbs you bought without a prescription
      * Allergies you may have including medications and latex  

      * Reactions to anesthesia in the past  

During the days before your surgery:

      * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot.Â Be sure to ask your provider which medicines medications should be stopped, and for how long before your procedure.
      * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop for at least 2 weeks prior to the surgery. Your provider can help.

On the day of surgery:

      * Follow your provider's instructions about eating or drinking before surgery.
      * Take the drugs your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Your provider will tell you when to arrive for the procedure.

## After the Procedure

The recovery period is very short for a simple lumpectomy. Many women have
little pain, but if you do feel pain, you can take pain medicine, such as
acetaminophen.

Your skin should heal in about a month. You will need to take care of the
surgical cut area. Change dressings as your provider tells you to. Watch for
signs of infection when you get home (such as redness, swelling, or drainage
from the incision).Â Wear a comfortable bra that provides good support, such
as a sports bra.

You may need to empty a fluid drain a few times a day for 1 to 2 weeks. You
may be asked to measure and record the amount of fluid drained. Your provider
will remove the drain later.

Most women can go back to their usual activities in a week or so. Avoid heavy
lifting, jogging, or activities that cause pain in the surgical area for 1 to
2 weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome of a lumpectomy for breast cancer depends mostly on the size of
the cancer, as well as the make up of the tumor.Â It also depends on its
spread to lymph nodes underneath your arm.

A lumpectomy for breast cancer is most often followed by radiation therapy and
other treatments such as chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, or both.

In most cases, you do not need aÂ breast reconstruction after lumpectomy.

## Alternative Names

Lumpectomy; Wide local excision; Breast conservation surgery; Breast-sparing
surgery; Partial mastectomy; Segmental resection; Tylectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Breast radiation - discharge
      * Lymphedema - self-care
      * Mastectomy - discharge 
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
      * ![Needle biopsy of the breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17016t.jpg)Needle biopsy of the breast
      * ![Open biopsy of the breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17017t.jpg)Open biopsy of the breast
      * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17019t.jpg)Breast self-exam
      * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23217t.jpg)Breast self-exam
      * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17022t.jpg)Breast self-exam
      * ![Breast lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17029t.jpg)Breast lumps
      * ![Lumpectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17030t.jpg)Lumpectomy
      * ![Causes of breast lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17080t.jpg)Causes of breast lumps
      * ![Breast lump removal - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7033t.jpg)Breast lump removal - series

## References

American Cancer Society. Breast-conserving surgery (lumpectomy).
www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/treatment/surgery-for-breast-
cancer/breast-conserving-surgery-lumpectomy. Updated September 13, 2017.
Accessed November 5, 2018.

Bevers TB, Brown PH, Maresso KC, Hawk ET. Cancer prevention, screening, and
early detection. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 23.

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

The American Society of Breast Surgeons. Performance and practice guidelines
for breast-conserving surgery/partial mastectomy.
www.breastsurgeons.org/docs/statements/Performance-and-Practice-Guidelines-
for-Breast-Conserving-Surgery-Partial-Mastectomy.pdf.Â Updated February 22,
2015.Â Accessed November 5, 2018.

Wolff AC, Domchek SM, Davidson NE, Sacchini V, McCormick B. Cancer of the
breast. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 91.

## Review Date 10/30/2018

Updated by: Jonas DeMuro, MD, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Stony Brook
School of Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mastectomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mastectomy2_thumb.jpg)Mastectomy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

