Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002919.htm    
                                Description: A mastectomy is surgery to remove the breast tissue. Some of the skin and the nipple may also be removed. However, surgery that spares the nipple and skin can now be done more often. The surgery is most    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mastectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002919.htm

# Mastectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A mastectomy is surgery to remove the breast tissue. Some of the skin and the
nipple may also be removed. However, surgery that spares the nipple and skin
can now be done more often. The surgery is most often done to treat breast
cancer.

## Description

Before surgery begins, you will be given general anesthesia. This means you
will be asleep and pain-free during surgery.

There are different types of mastectomies. Which one your surgeon performs
depends on the type of breast problem you have. Most of the time, mastectomy
is done to treat cancer. However, it is sometimes done to prevent cancer
(prophylactic mastectomy).

The surgeon will make a cut in your breast and perform one of these
operations:

      * Nipple-sparing mastectomy: The surgeon removes the entire breast, but leaves the nipple and areola (the colored circle around the nipple) in place. If you have cancer, the surgeon may do a biopsy of lymph nodes in the underarm area to see if the cancer has spread.
      * Skin-sparing mastectomy: The surgeon removes the breast with the nipple and areola with minimal skin removal. If you have cancer, the surgeon may do a biopsy of lymph nodes in the underarm area to see if the cancer has spread.
      * Total or simple mastectomy: The surgeon removes the entire breast along with the nipple and areola. If you have cancer, the surgeon may do a biopsy of lymph nodes in the underarm area to see if the cancer has spread.
      * Modified radical mastectomy: The surgeon removes the entire breast with the nipple and areolar along with some of the lymph nodes underneath the arm.
      * Radical mastectomy: The surgeon removes the skin over the breast, all of the lymph nodes underneath the arm, and the chest muscles. This surgery is rarely done.
      * The skin is then closed with sutures (stitches). 

One or two small plastic drains or tubes are very often left in your chest to
remove extra fluid from where the breast tissue used to be.

A plastic surgeon may be able to begin reconstruction of the breast during the
same operation. You may also choose to have breast reconstruction at a later
time. If you have reconstruction, a skin- or nipple-sparing mastectomy may be
an option.

Mastectomy will take about 2 to 3 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

WOMAN DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST CANCER

The most common reason for a mastectomy is breast cancer.

If you are diagnosed with breast cancer, talk to your health care provider
about your choices:

      * Lumpectomy is when only the breast cancer and tissue around the cancer are removed. This is also called breast conservation therapy or partial mastectomy. Most of your breast will be left.
      * Mastectomy is when all breast tissue is removed. 

You and your provider should consider:

      * The size and location of your tumor
      * Skin involvement of the tumor
      * How many tumors there are in the breast
      * How much of the breast is affected
      * The size of your breast
      * Your age
      * Medical history that may exclude you from breast conservation (this may include prior breast radiation and certain medical conditions)
      * Family history
      * Your general health and whether you have reached menopause 

The choice of what is best for you can be difficult. You and the providers who
are treating your breast cancer will decide together what is best.

WOMEN AT HIGH RISK FOR BREAST CANCER

Women who have a very high risk of developing breast cancer may choose to have
a preventive (or prophylactic) mastectomy to reduce the risk of breast cancer.

You may be more likely to get breast cancer if one or more close family
relatives has had the disease, especially at an early age. Genetic tests (such
as BRCA1 or BRCA2) may help show that you have a high risk. However, even with
a normal genetic test, you may still be at high risk of breast cancer,
depending on other factors. It may be useful to meet with a genetic counselor
to assess your level of risk.

Prophylactic mastectomy should be done only after very careful thought and
discussion with your doctor, a genetic counselor, your family, and loved ones.

Mastectomy greatly reduces the risk of breast cancer, but does not eliminate
it.

## Risks

Scabbing, blistering, wound opening, seroma, or skin loss along the edge of
the surgical cut or within the skin flaps may occur.

Risks:

      * Shoulder pain and stiffness. You may also feel pins and needles where the breast used to be and underneath the arm.
      * Swelling of the arm and or breast (called lymphedema) on the same side as the breast that is removed. This swelling is not common, but it can be an ongoing problem.
      * Damage to nerves that go to the muscles of the arm, back, and chest wall. 

## Before the Procedure

You may have blood and imaging tests (such as CT scans, bone scans, and chest
x-ray) after your provider finds breast cancer. This is done to determine if
the cancer has spread outside of the breast and lymph nodes under the arm.

Always tell your provider if:

      * You could be pregnant
      * You are taking any drugs or herbs or supplements you bought without a prescription
      * You smoke 

During the week before the surgery:

      * Several days before your surgery, you may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), vitamin E, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot.
      * Ask which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery. 

On the day of the surgery:

      * Follow instructions from your doctor or nurse about eating or drinking before surgery.
      * Take the drugs you have been told to take with a small sip of water. 

You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

Most women stay in the hospital for 24 to 48 hours after a mastectomy. Your
length of stay will depend on the type of surgery you had. Many women go home
with drainage tubes still in their chest after mastectomy. The doctor will
remove them later during an office visit. A nurse will teach you how to look
after the drain, or you might be able to have a home care nurse help you.

You may have pain around the site of your cut after surgery. The pain is
moderate after the first day and then goes away over a period of a few weeks.
You will receive pain medicines before you are released from the hospital.

Fluid may collect in the area of your mastectomy after all the drains are
removed. This is called a seroma. It most often goes away on its own, but it
may need to be drained using a needle (aspiration).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women recover well after mastectomy.

In addition to surgery, you may need other treatments for breast cancer. These
treatments may include hormonal therapy, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.
All have side effects, so you should talk to your provider about the choices.

## Alternative Names

Breast removal surgery; Subcutaneous mastectomy; Nipple sparing mastectomy;
Total mastectomy; Skin sparing mastectomy; Simple mastectomy; Modified radical
mastectomy; Breast cancer - mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Breast radiation - discharge
      * Chest radiation - discharge
      * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge
      * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
      * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
      * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
      * Lymphedema - self-care
      * Mastectomy and breast reconstruction - what to ask your doctor
      * Mastectomy - discharge 
      * Oral mucositis - self-care
      * Safe eating during cancer treatment
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
      * ![Mastectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7138t.jpg)Mastectomy - series
      * ![Breast reconstruction - series - Indication, part 1](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15784t.jpg)Breast reconstruction - series

## References

Davidson NE. Breast cancer and benign breast disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 188.

Henry NL, Shah PD, Haider I, Freer PE, Jagsi R, Sabel MS. Cancer of the
breast. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 88.

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Macmillan RD. Mastectomy. In: Dixon JM, Barber MD, eds. _Breast Surgery: A
Companion to Specialist Surgical Practice._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:122-133.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: breast cancer. Version 2.2020.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/breast.pdf. Updated February 5,
2020. Accessed February 25, 2020.

## Review Date 2/11/2020

Updated by: Todd Campbell, MD, FACS, Clinical Assistant Professor Department
of Surgery, Volunteer Faculty, Rowan University School of Osteopathic
Medicine, Stratford, NJ; Medical Director, Independence Blue Cross. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Mastectomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mastectomy2_thumb.jpg)Mastectomy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

