Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000244.htm    
                                Description: You had a mastectomy. This is surgery that removes the entire breast. The surgery was done to treat or prevent breast cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mastectomy - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000244.htm

# Mastectomy - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a mastectomy. This is surgery that removes the entire breast. The
surgery was done to treat or prevent breast cancer.

Now that you're going home, follow the surgeon's instructions on how to care
for yourself at home.

## When You're in the Hospital

Your surgery was one of these:

      * For a nipple-sparing mastectomy, the surgeon removed the entire breast and left the nipple and areola (the pigmented circle around the nipple) in place. The surgeon may have done a biopsy of nearby lymph nodes to see if the cancer spread.
      * For a skin-sparing mastectomy, the surgeon removed the entire breast along with the nipple and areola, but removed very little skin. The surgeon may have done a biopsy of nearby lymph nodes to see if the cancer spread.
      * For a total or simple mastectomy, the surgeon removed the entire breast along with the nipple and areola. The surgeon may have done a biopsy of nearby lymph nodes to see if the cancer spread.
      * For a modified radical mastectomy, the surgeon removed the entire breast and the lower level lymph nodes under your arm. 

You may have also had breast reconstruction surgery with implants or natural
tissue.

## What to Expect at Home

Full recovery may take 4 to 8 weeks. You may have shoulder, chest, and arm
stiffness. This stiffness gets better over time and can be helped with
physical therapy.

You may have swelling in the arm on the side of your surgery. This swelling is
called lymphedema. The swelling usually occurs much later and it can be a
problem that lasts. It can also be treated with physical therapy.

You may go home with drains in your chest to remove extra fluid. Your surgeon
will decide when to remove these drains, usually in a week or two.

You may need time to adjust to losing your breast. Talking to other women who
have had mastectomies can help you deal with these feelings. Ask your health
care provider about local support groups. Counseling can help as well.

## Activity

You can do whatever activity you want as long as it does not cause pain or
discomfort. You should be able to resume your usual activities in a few weeks.

It is OK to use your arm on the side of your surgery.

      * Your provider or physical therapist can show you some simple exercises to relieve tightness. Do only the exercises they show you.
      * You may drive only if you are not taking pain medicines and you can easily turn the steering wheel without pain. 

Ask your surgeon when you can return to work. When and what you can do depends
on your type of work and whether you also had a lymph node biopsy.

Ask your surgeon or nurse about using post-mastectomy products, such as a
mastectomy bra or a camisole with drain pockets. These can be bought in
specialty stores, the lingerie section of major department stores, and on the
internet.

## Wound Care

You may still have drains in your chest when you go home from the hospital.
Follow instructions on how to empty and measure how much fluid drains from
them.

Stitches are often placed under the skin and dissolve on their own. If your
surgeon used clips, you will go back to the doctor to have them removed. This
usually takes place 7 to 10 days after surgery.

Care for your wound as instructed. Instructions may include:

      * If you have a dressing, change it every day until your doctor says you do not need to.
      * Wash the wound area with mild soap and water.
      * You may shower but DO NOT scrub the strips of surgical tape or surgical glue. Let them fall off on their own.
      * DO NOT sit in a bathtub, pool, or hot tub until your doctor tells you it is OK.
      * You may shower after all of your dressings have been removed. 

## Managing Your Pain

Your surgeon will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
right away so you have it available when you go home. Remember to take your
pain medicine before your pain gets severe. Ask your surgeon about taking
acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen for pain instead of narcotic pain
medicine.

Try using an ice pack on your chest and armpit if you have pain or swelling.
Do this only if your surgeon says it is OK. Wrap the ice pack in a towel
before applying it. This prevents cold injury of your skin. DO NOT use the ice
pack for more than 15 minutes at a time.

## Follow-up

Your surgeon will tell you when you need to have your next visit. You may also
need appointments to talk about more treatment, such as chemotherapy,
radiation, or hormonal therapy.

## When to Call the Surgeon

Call if:

      * Your temperature is 101.5Â°F (38.6Â°C), or higher.
      * You have swelling of the arm on the side you had surgery (lymphedema).
      * Your surgical wounds are bleeding, are red or warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or pus-like drainage.
      * You have pain that is not helped with your pain medicines.
      * It is hard to breathe.
      * You have a cough that does not go away.
      * You cannot drink or eat. 

## Alternative Names

Breast removal surgery - discharge; Nipple-sparing mastectomy - discharge;
Total mastectomy - discharge; Simple mastectomy - discharge; Modified radical
mastectomy - discharge; Breast cancer - mastectomy -discharge

## References

American Cancer Society website. Surgery for breast cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/treatment/surgery-for-breast-cancer.html.
Updated August 18, 2016. Accessed March 20, 2019.

Elson L. Post-mastectomy pain syndrome. In: Frontera, WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD,
Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 110.

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
34.

## Read More

      * Breast cancer
      * Breast lump removal
      * Breast reconstruction - implants 
      * Breast reconstruction - natural tissue
      * Mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge
      * Mastectomy and breast reconstruction - what to ask your doctor
      * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Mastectomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

