Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001225.htm    
                                Description: Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) are a group of very rare nervous system disorders. They are passed down through families (inherited). NBIA involves movement problems, dementia, and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001225.htm

# Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) are a group of very rare
nervous system disorders. They are passed down through families (inherited).
NBIA involves movement problems, dementia, and other nervous system symptoms.

## Causes

Symptoms of NBIA begin in childhood or adulthood.

There are 10 types of NBIA. Each type is caused by a different gene defect.
The most common gene defect causes the disorder called PKAN (pantothenate
kinase-associated neurodegeneration).

People with all forms of NBIA have a buildup of iron in the basal ganglia.
This is an area deep inside the brain. It helps control movement.

## Symptoms

NBIA mainly causes movement problems. Other symptoms may include:

      * Dementia
      * Difficulty speaking
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Muscle problems such as rigidity or involuntary muscle contractions (dystonia)
      * Seizures
      * Tremor
      * Vision loss, such as from retinitis pigmentosa
      * Weakness
      * Writhing movements
      * Toe walking

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms
and medical history.

Genetic tests can look for the defective gene that causes the disease.
However, these tests aren't widely available.

Tests such as an MRI scan can help rule out other movement disorders and
diseases. The MRI usually shows iron deposits in the basal ganglia, and are
called the "eye of the tiger" sign because of the way the deposits look in the
scan. This sign suggests a diagnosis of PKAN.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for NBIA. Medicines that bind iron may help
slow the disease. Treatment is mainly focused on controlling the symptoms.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on NBIA:

      * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/All-Disorders/Neurodegeneration-Brain-Iron-Accumulation-Information-Page
      * NBIA Disorders Association -- www.nbiadisorders.org
      * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center --Â rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/12570/beta-propeller-protein-associated-neurodegeneration

## Outlook (Prognosis)

NBIA gets worse and damages the nerves over time. It leads to a lack of
movement, and often death by early adulthood.

## Possible Complications

Medicine used to treat symptoms can cause complications. Being unable to move
from the disease can lead to:

      * Blood clots
      * Respiratory infections 
      * Skin breakdown 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child develops:

      * Increased stiffness in the arms or legs 
      * Increasing problems at school 
      * Unusual movements 

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be recommended for families affected by this illness.
There is no known way to prevent it.

## Alternative Names

Hallervorden-Spatz disease; Pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration;
PKAN; NBIA

## References

Gregory A, Hayflick S. Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation
disorders overview. In: Pagon RA, Adam MP, Ardinger HH, et al, eds.
_GeneReviews_. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle; 1993-2016.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK121988. Updated April 24, 2014. Accessed
September 5, 2018.

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

NBIA Disorders Association. Overview of NBIA disorders.
www.nbiadisorders.org/about-nbia/overview-of-nbia-disorders. Accessed
September 5, 2018.

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

