Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003198.htm    
                                Description: Uncoordinated movement is due toÂ a muscle control problemÂ that causesÂ an inability to coordinate movements. It leads to a jerky, unsteady, to-and-fro motion of the middle of the body (trunk) and an unsteady    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Movement - uncoordinated

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003198.htm

# Movement - uncoordinated

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uncoordinated movement is due toÂ a muscle control problemÂ that causesÂ an
inability to coordinate movements. It leads to a jerky, unsteady, to-and-fro
motion of the middle of the body (trunk) and an unsteady gait (walking style).
It can also affect the limbs.

The medical name of this condition is ataxia.

## Considerations

Smooth graceful movement requires a balance between different muscle groups. A
part of the brain called the cerebellum manages this balance.

Ataxia can severely affect daily living activities.

## Causes

Diseases that damage the cerebellum, spinal cord, or peripheral nerves can
interfere with normal muscle movement. The result is large, jerky,
uncoordinated movements.

Brain injuries or diseases that can cause uncoordinated movements include:

      * Brain injury or head trauma 
      * Chickenpox or certain other brain infections (encephalitis) 
      * Conditions that are passed through families (such as congenital cerebellar ataxia, Friedreich ataxia, ataxia - telangiectasia, or Wilson disease)
      * Multiple sclerosis (MS) 
      * Stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) 

Poisoning or toxic effects caused by:

      * Alcohol
      * Certain medicines
      * Heavy metals such as mercury, thallium, and lead
      * Solvents such as toluene or carbon tetrachloride 
      * Illicit drugs

Other causes include:

      * Certain cancers, in which uncoordinated movement symptoms may appear months or years before the cancer is diagnosed (called paraneoplastic syndrome)
      * Problems with the nerves in the legs (neuropathy)
      * Spine injury or disease causing damage to the spinal cord (such as compression fractures of the spine)

## Home Care

A home safety evaluation by a physical therapist may be helpful.

Take measures to make it easier and safer to move around at home. For example,
get rid of clutter, leave wide walkways, and remove throw rugs or other
objects that might cause slipping or falling.

People with this condition should be encouraged to take part in normal
activities. Family members need to be patient with a person who has poor
coordination. Take time to show the person ways to do tasks more easily. Take
advantage of the person's strengths while avoiding their weaknesses.

Ask the health care provider whether walking aids, such as a cane or walker,
would be helpful.

People with ataxia are prone to falls. Talk with the provider about measures
to prevent falls.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * A person has unexplained problems with coordination
      * Lack of coordination lasts longer than a few minutes

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

In an emergency, you will first be stabilized so that symptoms do not get
worse.

The provider will perform a physical exam, which may include:

      * A detailed examination of the nervous system and muscles, paying careful attention to walking, balance, and coordination of pointing with fingers and toes.
      * Asking you to stand up with your feet together and the eyes closed. This is called the Romberg test. If you lose your balance, this is a sign that your sense of position has been lost. In this case, the test is considered positive. 

Medical history questions may include:

      * When did the symptoms begin?
      * Does the uncoordinated movement happen all the time or does it come and go?
      * Is it getting worse?
      * What medicines do you take?
      * Do you drink alcohol?
      * Do you use recreational drugs?
      * Have you been exposed to something that may have caused poisoning?
      * What other symptoms do you have? For example: weakness or paralysis, numbness, tingling, or loss of sensation, confusion or disorientation, seizures. 

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Antibody testing to check for paraneoplastic syndromes
      * Blood tests (such as a CBC or blood differential)
      * CT scan of the head
      * Genetic testing
      * MRI of the head

You may need to be referred to a specialist for diagnosis and treatment. If a
specific problem is causing the ataxia, the problem will be treated. For
example, if a medicine is causing coordination problems, the medicine may be
changed or stopped. Other causes may not be treatable. The provider can tell
you more.

## Alternative Names

Lack of coordination; Loss of coordination; Coordination impairment; Ataxia;
Clumsiness; Uncoordinated movement

## Images

      * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy

## References

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

Subramony SH, Xia G. Disorders of the cerebellum, including the degenerative
ataxias. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
97.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

