Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003201.htm    
                                Description: Uncontrollable movements include many types of movements that you cannot control. They can affect the arms, legs, face, neck, or other parts of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Movement - uncontrollable

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003201.htm

# Movement - uncontrollable

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uncontrollable movements include many types of movements that you cannot
control. They can affect the arms, legs, face, neck, or other parts of the
body.

Examples of uncontrollable movements are:

      * Loss of muscle tone (flaccidity)
      * Slow, twisting, or continued movements (chorea, athetosis, or dystonia)
      * Sudden jerking movements (myoclonus, ballismus)
      * Uncontrollable repetitive movements (asterixis or tremor) 

## Causes

There are many causes of uncontrolled movements. Some movements last only a
short time. Others are due to a permanent condition of the brain and spinal
cord and may get worse.

Some of these movements affect children. Others affect only adults.

Causes in children:

      * Genetic disorder
      * Kernicterus (too much bilirubin in the central nervous system)
      * Lack of oxygen (hypoxia) at birth 

Causes in adults:

      * Nervous system diseases that are getting worse
      * Genetic disorder
      * Medicines
      * Stroke or brain injury
      * Tumors 
      * Illicit drugs
      * Head and neck trauma

## Home Care

Physical therapy that includes swimming, stretching, walking, and balancing
exercises can help with coordination and slow the damage.

Ask the health care provider whether walking aids, such as a cane or walker,
would be helpful.

People with this disorder are prone to falls. Talk with the provider about
measures to prevent falls.

Family support is important. It helps to openly discuss your feelings. Self-
help groups are available in many communities.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any unexplained movements that you cannot
control that do not go away.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms and
medical history. You will have a detailed examination of both the nervous and
muscle systems.

Medical history questions may include:

      * Are there muscle contractions that may be causing the abnormal posture?
      * Are the arms affected?
      * Are the legs affected?
      * When did this movement begin?
      * Did it occur suddenly?
      * Has it been getting worse slowly over weeks orÂ months?
      * Is it present all the time?
      * Is it worse after exercise?
      * Is it worse when you are stressed?
      * Is it better after sleep?
      * What makes it better?
      * What other symptoms are present? 

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Blood tests (such as CBC or blood differential)
      * CT scan of the head or affected area
      * EEG
      * Lumbar puncture
      * MRI of the head or affected area
      * Urinalysis

Treatment depends on the cause. Many uncontrollable movements are treated with
medicines. Some symptoms may improve on their own. Your provider will make
recommendations based on your signs and symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Uncontrolled movements; Involuntary body movements; Body movements -
uncontrollable; Dyskinesia; Athetosis; Myoclonus; Ballismus

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Jankovic J, Lang AE. Diagnosis and assessment of Parkinson disease and other
movement disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

