Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003197.htm    
                                Description: Uncontrolled or slow movement is a problem with muscle tone, usually in the large muscle groups. The problem leads to slow, uncontrollable jerky movements of the head, limbs, trunk, or neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Movement - uncontrolled or slow

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003197.htm

# Movement - uncontrolled or slow

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uncontrolled or slow movement is a problem with muscle tone, usually in the
large muscle groups. The problem leads to slow, uncontrollable jerky movements
of the head, limbs, trunk, or neck.

## Considerations

The abnormal movement may be reduced or disappear during sleep. Emotional
stress makes it worse.

Abnormal and sometimes strange postures may occur because of these movements.

## Causes

The slow twisting movements of muscles (athetosis) or jerky muscle
contractions (dystonia) may be caused by one of many conditions, including:

      * Cerebral palsy (group of disorders that can involve brain and nervous system functions, such as movement, learning, hearing, seeing, and thinking)
      * Side effects of drugs, especially for mental disorders
      * Encephalitis (irritation and swelling of the brain, most often due to infections)
      * Genetic diseases 
      * Hepatic encephalopathy (loss of brain function when the liver is unable to remove toxins from the blood) 
      * Huntington disease (disorder that involves breakdown of nerve cells in the brain) 
      * Stroke 
      * Head and neck trauma
      * Pregnancy

Sometimes two conditions (such as a brain injury and medicine) interact to
cause the abnormal movements when neither one alone would cause a problem.

## Home Care

Get enough sleep and avoid too much stress. Take safety measures to avoid
injury. Follow the treatment plan your health care provider prescribes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have unexplained movements that you cannot control
      * The problem is getting worse
      * Uncontrolled movements occur with other symptoms

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. This may include a detailed
examination of the nervous and muscle systems.

You'll be asked about your medical history and symptoms, including:

      * When did you develop this problem?
      * Is it always the same?
      * Is it always present or only sometimes?
      * Is it getting worse?
      * Is it worse after exercise?
      * Is it worse during times of emotional stress?
      * Have you been injured or in an accident recently?
      * Have you been sick recently?
      * Is it better after you sleep?
      * Does anyone else in your family have a similar problem?
      * What other symptoms do you have?
      * What medicines are you taking? 

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Blood studies, such as metabolic panel, complete blood count (CBC), blood differential
      * CT scan of the head or affected area
      * EEG
      * EMG and nerve conduction velocity studies (sometimes done)
      * Genetic studies
      * Lumbar puncture
      * MRI of the head or affected area
      * Urinalysis
      * Pregnancy test

Treatment is based on the movement problem the person has and on the condition
that may be causing the problem. If medicines are used, the provider will
decide which medicine to prescribe based on the person's symptoms and any test
results.

## Alternative Names

Dystonia; Involuntary slow and twisting movements; Choreoathetosis; Leg and
arm movements - uncontrollable; Arm and leg movements - uncontrollable; Slow
involuntary movements of large muscle groups; Athetoid movements

## Images

      * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy

## References

Jankovic J, Lang AE. Diagnosis and assessment of Parkinson disease and other
movement disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

