Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007616.htm    
                                Description: Angelman syndrome (AS) is a genetic condition that causes problems with the way a child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angelman syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007616.htm

# Angelman syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angelman syndrome (AS) is a genetic condition that causes problems with the
way a child's body and brain develop. The syndrome is present from birth
(congenital). However, it often isn't diagnosed until about 6 to 12 months of
age. This is when development problems are first noticed in most cases.

## Causes

This condition involves the gene _UBE3A_.

Most genes come in pairs. Children receive one from each parent. In most
cases, both genes are active. This means information from both genes is used
by the cells. With the _UBE3A_ gene, both parents pass it on, but only the
gene passed on from the mother is active.

Angelman syndrome most often occurs because _UBE3A_ passed on from the mother
doesn't work the way it should. In some cases, AS is caused when two copies of
_UBE3A_ gene come from the father, and none come from the mother. This means
neither gene is active, because they both come from the father.

## Symptoms

In newborns and infants:

      * Loss of muscle tone (floppiness)
      * Trouble feeding
      * Heartburn (acid reflux)
      * Trembling arm and leg movements 

In toddlers and older children:

      * Unstable or jerky walking
      * Little or no speech
      * Happy, excitable personality
      * Laughing and smiling often
      * Light hair, skin, and eye color compared to rest of family
      * Small head size compared to body, flattened back of head
      * Severe intellectual disability
      * Seizures
      * Excessive movement of the hands and limbs
      * Sleep problems
      * Tongue thrusting, drooling
      * Unusual chewing and mouthing movements
      * Crossed eyes
      * Walking with arms uplifted and hands waving 

Most children with this disorder don't show symptoms until about 6 to 12
months. This is when parents may notice a delay in their child's development,
such as not crawling or starting to talk.

Children between 2 and 5 years of age start to show symptoms such as jerky
walking, happy personality, laughing often, no speech, and intellectual
problems.

## Exams and Tests

Genetic tests may diagnose Angelman syndrome. These tests look for:

      * Missing pieces of chromosomes
      * DNA test to see if copies of the gene from both parents are in an inactive or active state
      * Gene mutation in the mother's copy of the gene

Other tests may include:

      * Brain MRI
      * EEG  

## Treatment

There is no cure for Angelman syndrome. Treatment helps to manage health and
development problems caused by the condition.

      * Anticonvulsant medicines help control seizures
      * Behavior therapy helps manage hyperactivity, sleep problems, and development problems
      * Occupational and speech therapy manage speech problems and teach living skills
      * Physical therapy helps with walking and movement problems  

## Support Groups

Angelman Syndrome Foundation: www.angelman.org

AngelmanUK: www.angelmanuk.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with AS live close to a normal lifespan. Many have friendships and
interact socially. Treatment helps improve function. People with AS can't live
on their own. However, they may be able to learn certain tasks and live with
others in a supervised setting.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Severe seizures
      * Gastroesophageal reflux (heartburn)
      * Scoliosis (curved spine)
      * Accidental injury due to uncontrolled movements 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

There is no way to prevent Angelman syndrome. If you have a child with AS or a
family history of the condition, you may want to talk with your provider
before becoming pregnant.

## References

Dagli AI, Mueller J, Williams CA. Angelman syndrome. _GeneReviews_. Seattle,
WA: University of Washington; 2015:5. PMID: 20301323
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301323. Updated December 27, 2017. Accessed
August 1, 2019.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Genetic and pediatric diseases. In: Kumar V,
Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins Basic Pathology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. The chromosomal and genomic basis of
disease: disorders of the autosomes and sex chromosomes. In: Nussbaum RL,
McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson & Thompson Genetics in Medicine_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Developmental
Disabilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DevelopmentalDisabilities_thumb.jpg)Developmental
Disabilities _Read more_

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

