Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000685.htm    
                                Description: Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a disorder that involves involuntary movements. Tardive means delayed and dyskinesia means abnormal movement.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tardive dyskinesia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000685.htm

# Tardive dyskinesia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a disorder that involves involuntary movements.
Tardive means delayed and dyskinesia means abnormal movement.

## Causes

TD is a serious side effect that occurs when you take medicines called
neuroleptics. These drugs are also called antipsychotics or major
tranquilizers. They are used to treat mental problems.

TD often occurs when you take the drug for many months or years. In some
cases, it occurs after you take them for as little as 6 weeks.

Medicines that most commonly cause this disorder are older antipsychotics,
including:

      * Chlorpromazine
      * Fluphenazine
      * Haloperidol
      * Perphenazine
      * Prochlorperazine
      * Thioridazine
      * Trifluoperazine

Newer antipsychotics seem less likely to cause TD, but they are not entirely
without risk.

Other drugs that can cause TD include:

      * Metoclopramide (treats stomach problem called gastroparesis)
      * Antidepressant drugs such as amitriptyline, fluoxetine, phenelzine, sertraline, trazodone
      * Antiparkinson drugs such as levodopa
      * Antiseizure drugs such as phenobarbital and phenytoin

## Symptoms

Symptoms of TD include uncontrollable movements of the face and body such as:

      * Facial grimacing (commonly involving lower facial muscles)
      * Finger movement (piano playing movements)
      * Rocking or thrusting of the pelvis (duck-like gait)
      * Jaw swinging
      * Repetitive chewing
      * Rapid eye blinking
      * Tongue thrusting
      * Restlessness

## Treatment

When TD is diagnosed, the health care provider will either have you stop the
medicine slowly or switch to another one.

If TD is mild or moderate, various medicines may be tried. A dopamine-
depleting medicine, tetrabenazine is most effective treatment for TD. Your
provider can tell you more about these.

If TD is very severe, a procedure called deep brain stimulation DBS may be
tried. DBS uses a device called a neurostimulator to deliver electrical
signals to the areas of the brain that control movement.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If diagnosed early, TD may be reversed by stopping the medicine that caused
the symptoms. Even if the medicine is stopped, the involuntary movements may
become permanent, and in some cases, may become worse.

## Alternative Names

TD; Tardive syndrome; Orofacial dyskinesia; Involuntary movement - tardive
dyskinesia; Antipsychotic drugs - tardive dyskinesia; Neuroleptic drugs -
tardive dyskinesia; Schizophrenia - tardive dyskinesia

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Aronson JK. Neuroleptic drugs. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:chap 53.

Freudenreich O, Flaherty AW. Patients with abnormal movements. In: Stern TA,
Freudenreich O, Smith FA, Fricchione GL, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Handbook of General Hospital Psychiatry_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Freudenreich O, Goff DC, Henderson DC. Antipsychotic drugs. In: Stern TA, Fava
M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 42.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

