Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003196.htm    
                                Description: Jerky body movement is a condition in whichÂ a personÂ makes fast movements that they cannot control and that have no purpose. These movements interrupt the person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Movement - unpredictable or jerky

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003196.htm

# Movement - unpredictable or jerky

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jerky body movement is a condition in whichÂ a personÂ makes fast movements
that they cannot control and that have no purpose. These movements interrupt
the person'sÂ normal movement or posture.

The medical name of this condition is chorea.

## Considerations

This condition can affect one or both sides of the body. Typical movements of
chorea include:

      * Bending and straightening the fingers and toes 
      * Grimacing in the face 
      * Raising and lowering the shoulders 

These movements do not usually repeat. They can look like they are being done
on purpose. But the movements are not under the person's control. A person
with chorea may look jittery or restless.

Chorea can be a painful condition, making it hard to do daily living
activities.

## Causes

There are many possible causes of unpredictable, jerky movements, including:

      * Antiphospholipid syndrome (disorder that involves abnormal blood clotting)
      * Benign hereditary chorea (a rare inherited condition)
      * Disorders of calcium, glucose, or sodium metabolism
      * Huntington disease (disorder that involves breakdown of nerve cells in the brain)
      * Medicines (such as levodopa, antidepressants, anticonvulsants)
      * Polycythemia rubra vera (bone marrow disease)
      * Sydenham chorea (movement disorder that occurs after infection with certain bacteria called group A streptococcus)
      * Wilson disease (disorder that involves too much copper in the body)
      * Pregnancy (chorea gravidarum)
      * Stroke
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus (disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue)
      * Tardive dyskinesia (a condition that can be caused by medicines such as antipsychotic drugs)
      * Thyroid disease
      * Other rare disorders 

## Home Care

Treatment is aimed at the cause of the movements.

      * If the movements are due to a medicine, theÂ medicine should be stopped, if possible.
      * If the movements are due to a disease, the disorder should be treated.
      * For people with Huntington disease, if the movements are severe and affect the person's life, medicines such as tetrabenazine may help control them. 

Excitement and fatigue can make chorea worse. Rest helps improve chorea. Try
to reduce emotional stress.

Safety measures should also be taken to prevent injury from the involuntary
movements.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have unexplained body motions that are
unpredictable and do not go away.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. This may include a detailed
examination of the nervous and muscle systems.

You'll be asked about your medical history and symptoms, including:

      * What kind of movement occurs?
      * What part of the body is affected?
      * What other symptoms are there?
      * Is there irritability?
      * Is there weakness or paralysis?
      * Is there restlessness?
      * Are there emotional problems?
      * Are there facial tics? 

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Blood tests such as metabolic panel, complete blood count (CBC), blood differential
      * CT scan of the head or affected area
      * EEG (in rare cases)
      * EMG and nerve conduction velocity (in rare cases)
      * Genetic studies to help diagnose certain diseases, such as Huntington disease
      * Lumbar puncture
      * MRI of the head or affected area
      * Urinalysis

Treatment is based on the type of chorea the person has. If medicines are
used, the provider will decide which medicine to prescribe based on the
person's symptoms and test results.

## Alternative Names

Chorea; Muscle - jerky movements (uncontrolled); Hyperkinetic movements

## References

Jankovic J, Lang AE. Diagnosis and assessment of Parkinson disease and other
movement disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

