Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001637.htm    
                                Description: Palatal myoclonus is a fast spasm (contraction) of the muscles in the roof of the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palatal myoclonus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001637.htm

# Palatal myoclonus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Palatal myoclonus is a fast spasm (contraction) of the muscles in the roof of
the mouth.

## Causes

Palatal myoclonus is most often due to damage (lesions) on brain nerve
pathways. Stroke is the most common cause. The problem most often develops
about a year after the stroke occurs. Other conditions such as multiple
sclerosis, trauma, or tumor may also lead to this problem.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Clicking in the ear
      * Popping in the ear
      * Fluttering sounds in the ear with normal hearing

## Alternative Names

Palatal tremor

## References

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Kim JS, Caplan LR. Verterobasilar disease. In: Grotta JC, Albers GW, Broderick
JP, et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, and Management_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![Multiple
Sclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleSclerosis_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Sclerosis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

