Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000747.htm    
                                Description: Transient tic disorder is a condition in which a person makes one or many brief, repeated, movements or noises (tics). These movements or noises are involuntary (not on purpose).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transient tic disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000747.htm

# Transient tic disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transient tic disorder is a condition in which a person makes one or many
brief, repeated, movements or noises (tics). These movements or noises are
involuntary (not on purpose).

## Causes

Transient tic disorder is common in children.

The cause of transient tic disorder can be physical or mental (psychological).
It may be a mild form of Tourette syndrome.

## Symptoms

The child may have facial tics or tics involving movement of the arms, legs,
or other areas.

Tics may involve:

      * Movements that occur again and again and do not have a rhythm
      * An overwhelming urge to make the movement
      * Brief and jerky movements that include blinking, clenching the fists, jerking the arms, kicking, raising the eyebrows, sticking out the tongue.

The tics often look like nervous behavior. Tics appear to get worse with
stress. They do not occur during sleep.

Sounds may also occur, such as:

      * Clicking
      * Grunting
      * Hissing
      * Moaning 
      * Sniffing 
      * Snorting 
      * Squealing 
      * Throat clearing 

## Exams and Tests

The health care providerÂ will consider physical causes of transient tic
disorder before making a diagnosis.

In order to be diagnosed with transient tic disorder, the child must have had
tics almost every day for at least 4 weeks, but less than a year.

Other disorders such as anxiety, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD), uncontrollable movement (myoclonus), obsessive-compulsive disorder,
and epilepsy may need to be ruled out.

## Treatment

Providers recommend that family members do not call attention to the tics at
first. This is because unwanted attention may make the tics worse. If the tics
are severe enough to cause problems at school or work, behavioral techniques
and medicines may help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Simple childhood tics usually disappear over a period of months.

## Possible Complications

There are usually no complications. A chronic motor tic disorder can develop.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your child's provider if you are concerned about a transient tic
disorder, especially if it continues or disrupts your child's life. If you are
not sure whether the movements are a tic or a seizure, call the provider right
away.

## Alternative Names

Tic - transient tic disorder

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
      * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system
      * ![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19236t.jpg)Brain structures

## References

Ryan CA, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HR. Motor disorders and habits. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 139.

Tochen L, Singer HS. Tics and Tourette syndrome. In: Swaiman K, Ashwal S,
Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 98.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![Tourette
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TouretteSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Tourette
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

