Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001410.htm    
                                Description: A facial tic is a repeated spasm, often involving the eyes and muscles of the face.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facial tics

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001410.htm

# Facial tics

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A facial tic is a repeated spasm, often involving the eyes and muscles of the
face.

## Causes

Tics most often occur in children, but may last into adulthood. Tics occur 3
to 4 times as often in boys as girls. Tics may affect as many as one quarter
of all children at some time.

The cause of tics is unknown, but stress appears to make tics worse.

Short-lived tics (transient tic disorder) are common in childhood.

A chronic motor tic disorder also exists. It may last for years. This form is
very rare compared to the common short-lived childhood tic. Tourette syndrome
is a separate condition in which tics are a major symptom.

## Symptoms

Tics may involve repeated, uncontrolled spasm-like muscle movements, such as:

      * Eye blinking
      * Grimacing
      * Mouth twitching
      * Nose wrinkling
      * Squinting

Repeated throat clearing or grunting may also be present.Â

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will usually diagnose a tic during a physical
examination. No special tests are needed. In rare cases, an EEG may be done to
look for seizures, which can be the source of tics.

## Treatment

Short-lived childhood tics are not treated. Calling the child's attention to a
tic may make it worse or cause it to continue. A non-stressful environment can
make tics occur less often, and help them go away more quickly. Stress
reduction programs may also be helpful.

If tics severely affect a person's life, medicines may help control them.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Simple childhood tics should go away on their own over a period of months.
Chronic tics may continue for a longer period of time.

## Possible Complications

In most cases, there are no complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if tics:

      * Affect many muscle groups 
      * Are persistent 
      * Are severe 

## Prevention

Many cases cannot be prevented. Reducing stress may be helpful. Sometimes,
counseling can help your child learn how to cope with stress.

## Alternative Names

Tic - facial; Mimic spasm

## Images

      * ![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19236t.jpg)Brain structures
      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Ryan CA, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Motor disorders and habits. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Tochen L, Singer HS. Tics and tourette syndrome. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S,
Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 98.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Facial Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FacialInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Facial
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![Tourette
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TouretteSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Tourette
Syndrome _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

