Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000745.htm    
                                Description: Chronic motor tic disorder is a condition that involves quick, uncontrollable movements or vocal outbursts (but not both).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic motor tic disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000745.htm

# Chronic motor tic disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic motor tic disorder is a condition that involves quick, uncontrollable
movements or vocal outbursts (but not both).

## Causes

Chronic motor tic disorderÂ is more common than Tourette syndrome. Chronic
tics may be forms of Tourette syndrome. Tics usually start at age 5 or 6 and
get worse until age 12. They often improve during adulthood.

## Symptoms

A tic is a sudden, fast, repeated movement or sound that has no reason or
goal. Tics can involve:

      * Excessive blinking
      * Grimaces of the face
      * Quick movements of the arms, legs, or other areas
      * Sounds (grunts, throat clearing, contractions of the abdomen or diaphragm) 

Some people have many kinds of tics.

People with the condition can hold off these symptoms for a short time. But
they feel relief when they carry out these movements. They often describe the
tics as a response to an inner urge. Some say they have abnormal sensations in
the area of the tic before it occurs.

Tics may continue during all stages of sleep. They may get worse with:

      * Excitement 
      * Fatigue 
      * Heat
      * Stress 

## Exams and Tests

The doctor can usually diagnose a tic during a physical examination. Tests are
generally not needed.

People are diagnosed with the disorder when:

      * They have had the tics nearly every day for more than a year
      * They have not had a tic-free period longer than 3 months

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how severe the tics are and how the condition affects
you. Medicines and talk therapy (cognitive behavioral therapy) are used when
the tics greatly affect daily activities, such as school and job performance.

Medicines can help control or reduce tics. But they have side effects, such as
movement and thinking problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children who develop this disorder between ages 6 and 8 often do very well.
Symptoms may last 4 to 6 years, and then stop in the early teens without
treatment.

When the disorder begins in older children and continues into the 20s, it may
become a lifelong condition.

## Possible Complications

There are usually no complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

There is usually no need to see the health care provider for a tic unless it
is severe or disrupts daily life.

If you cannot tell whether you or your child's movements are a tic or
something more serious (such as a seizure), call your provider.

## Alternative Names

Chronic vocal tic disorder; Tic - chronic motor tic disorder

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
      * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system
      * ![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19236t.jpg)Brain structures

## References

Ryan CA, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Motor disorders and habits. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Tochen L, Singer HS. Tics and Tourette syndrome. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S,
Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 98.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![Tourette
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TouretteSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Tourette
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

