Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001035.htm    
                                Description: Oral cancer is cancer that starts in the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oral cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001035.htm

# Oral cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Oral cancer is cancer that starts in the mouth.

## Causes

Oral cancer most commonly involves the lips or the tongue. It may also occur
on the:

      * Cheek lining
      * Floor of the mouth
      * Gums (gingiva)
      * Roof of the mouth (palate)

Most oral cancers are a type called squamous cell carcinoma. These cancers
tend to spread quickly.

Smoking and other tobacco use are linked to most cases of oral cancer. Heavy
alcohol use also increases the risk for oral cancer.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection (the same virus that causes genital
warts) account for a larger number of oral cancers than in the past. One type
of HPV, type 16 or HPV-16, is much more commonly associated with almost all
oral cancers.

Other factors that may increase the risk for oral cancer include:

      * Long-term (chronic) rubbing (such as from rough teeth, dentures, or fillings)
      * Taking medicines that weaken the immune system (immunosuppressants)
      * Poor dental and oral hygiene

Some oral cancers begin as a white plaque (leukoplakia) or as a mouth ulcer.

Men develop oral cancer twice as often as women do. It is more common in men
older than 40.

## Symptoms

Oral cancer can appear as a lump or ulcer in the mouth that may be:

      * A deep, hard-edged crack in the tissue
      * Pale, dark red, or discolored
      * On the tongue, lip, or other area of the mouth
      * Painless at first, then a burning sensation or pain when the tumor is more advanced

Other symptoms may include:

      * Chewing problems
      * Mouth sores that may bleed
      * Pain with swallowing
      * Speech difficulties
      * Swallowing difficulty
      * Swollen lymph nodes in the neck
      * Tongue problems
      * Weight loss
      * Difficulty opening the mouth
      * Numbness and loosening of teeth
      * Bad breath

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor or dentist will examine your mouth area. The exam may show:

      * A sore on the lip, tongue, gum, cheeks, or other area of the mouth
      * An ulcer or bleeding

A biopsy of the sore or ulcer will be done. This tissue will also be tested
for HPV.

CT, MRI and PET scans may be done to determine if the cancer has spread.

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the tumor is recommended if the tumor is small enough.

If the tumor has spread to more tissue or nearby lymph nodes, a larger surgery
is done. The amount of tissue and the number of lymph nodes that are removed
depend on how far the cancer has spread.

Surgery may be used together with radiation therapy and chemotherapy for
larger tumors.

Depending on what type of treatment you require, supportive treatments that
may be needed include:

      * Speech therapy
      * Therapy to help with chewing, swallowing
      * Learning to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up. Ask your health care provider about liquid food supplements that can help
      * Help with dry mouth

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

About one half of people with oral cancer will live more than 5 years after
they are diagnosed and treated. If the cancer is found early, before it has
spread to other tissues, the cure rate is nearly 90%. More than half of oral
cancers have spread when the cancer is detected. Most have spread to the
throat or neck.

It is possible, but not fully proven, that cancers that test positive for HPV
may have a better outlook. Also, patients who smoked for less than 10 years
may do better.

Patients who require larger doses of radiation along with chemotherapy are
more likely to have more severe problems with swallowing.

Oral cancers can recur if tobacco or alcohol use is not stopped.

## Possible Complications

Complications of oral cancer may include:

      * Complications of radiation therapy, including dry mouth and difficulty swallowing
      * Disfigurement of the face, head, and neck after surgery
      * Other spread (metastasis) of the cancer

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Oral cancer may be discovered when the dentist does a routine cleaning and
examination.

Call your provider if you have a sore in your mouth or lip or a lump in the
neck that does not go away within 1 month. Early diagnosis and treatment of
oral cancer greatly increases the chance of survival.

## Prevention

Oral cancer may be prevented by:

      * Avoiding smoking or other tobacco use
      * Having dental problems corrected
      * Limiting or avoiding alcohol use
      * Visiting the dentist regularly and practicing good oral hygiene

HPV vaccines recommended for children and young adults target HPV sub-types
most likely to cause oral cancers. They have been shown to prevent most oral
HPV infections. It is not clear yet whether they also are able to prevent oral
cancers.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - mouth; Mouth cancer; Head and neck cancer - oral; Squamous cell
cancer - mouth; Malignant neoplasm - oral; Oropharyngeal cancer - HPV;
Carcinoma - mouth

## Patient Instructions

      * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
      * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
      * Swallowing problems 

## Images

      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
      * ![Mouth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8880t.jpg)Mouth anatomy

## References

Fakhry C, Gourin CG. Human papillomavirus and the epidemiology of head and
neck cancer. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 75.

Little JW, Miller CS, Rhodus NL. Cancer and oral care of patients with cancer.
In: Little JW, Miller CS, Rhodus NL, eds. _Little and Falace's Dental
Management of the Medically Compromised Patient_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

National Cancer Institute website. Oropharyngeal cancer treatment (adult)
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/head-and-
neck/hp/adult/oropharyngeal-treatment-pdq#link/_528. Updated: March 28, 2018.
Accessed July 27, 2018.

Wein RO, Weber RS. Malignant neoplasms of the oral cavity. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 93.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial updates 07/27/2018 and 10/01/2018.

![Oral Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OralCancer_thumb.jpg)Oral Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

