

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Our Work: 2018

Minus

Related Pages

### Our Work - 2018

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * November
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * August
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * June
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * April
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * March
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * February
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * January

Learn how to administer the smallpox vaccine with new videos

![bifurcated needle pressed against human skin but not puncturing
yet](/ncezid/images/recent-work/smallpox-vaccination.jpg)

CDC is providing clinicians, laboratory scientists, public health
professionals, and the public the information they need to prepare for and
respond to a smallpox emergency. NCEZID staff recently released a series of
videos that instruct clinicians how to administer smallpox vaccine by using
the bifurcated needle, interpret vaccination results, care for the vaccination
site, and manage common reactions and potential serious adverse events. The
videos provide a way to educate clinicians and vaccine administrators quickly,
should a smallpox emergency ever occur.

Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

![map of confirmed and probable cases - see map page here
https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbreaks/drc/east-drc-
map.html](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ebola-drc-map.jpg)

The Ebola outbreak in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) continues
unabated nearly four months after it was announced on August 1. It's the 10th
outbreak in DRC since the discovery of Ebola in 1976. As of November 24, 412
confirmed and probable cases, including 236 deaths, had been reported, making
this the single largest Ebola outbreak in DRC's history. Significant
challenges continue to thwart the response. Despite having deployed about 90
staff to work on the response since the outbreak began, CDC has been limited
in its ability to support on-the-ground efforts in the outbreak's epicenter
because of ongoing security risks. The armed conflict in the area is the most
prominent challenge, keeping some responders out and limiting effective
contact tracing and other activities necessary to contain the outbreak

Monkeypox in Nigeria

![monkeypox virus virion in human vesicular fluid](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/monkeypox.jpg)

New cases continue to be detected in Nigeria's monkeypox outbreak, which began
in September 2017; as of November 2018, the country reports a total of 300
cases (126 confirmed), including seven deaths. CDC staff have supported the
Nigeria Centre for Disease Control by providing onsite trainings for medical,
public health, animal health, and laboratory officials; technical consultation
on suspected cases; monkeypox-specific tools for investigations; expertise in
database management; and quality control of diagnostic assays at the national
public health laboratory. From Atlanta, staff have also confirmed test results
obtained in Nigeria and performed genetic sequencing to learn more about how
the monkeypox virus strains are related.

Also worrisome are recent travel-related monkeypox cases that are linked to
the Nigerian outbreak. In the United Kingdom, three such cases were reported
in September, including two unrelated cases in travelers to Nigeria and a
third case in a healthcare worker. Israel reported an imported case in
October. In response, CDC posted a Level 2 Alert Travel Notice for monkeypox
in Nigeria in mid-October.

CDC's Quarantine Legacy video commemorates 50 years

![screenshot from CDC’s Quarantine Legacy video commemorating 50
years](/ncezid/images/recent-work/quarantine-video.jpg)

To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the quarantine program at CDC, NCEZID's
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine developed a short video that
chronicles CDC's quarantine legacy.

Quarantine came out of the Venetian practice that began in the 1300s to
protect against importing bubonic plague. American quarantine law goes back to
the colonies in 1647 and has served as the cornerstone of public health. In
1798, President John Adams and Congress created the US Marine Hospital
Service, which established a network of hospitals and staff along the coast to
protect against the spread of disease. This network became the US Public
Health Service.

Today, CDC has 20 quarantine stations strategically located at US airports,
land borders, and seaports where most international travelers arrive. DGMQ is
responsible for upholding US quarantine regulations to protect our country's
borders from contagious diseases. Check out the video for more information
about the fascinating history of the US quarantine program.

Latest foodborne outbreak investigations

![Tahini paste - sesame sauce ](/ncezid/images/recent-work/tahini.jpg)

Foodborne disease outbreaks received national attention in November. CDC is
investigating several new and ongoing outbreaks across the country, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Salmonella infections linked to tahini from Achdut Ltd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listeria infections linked to pork products produced by Long Phung Food Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _E. coli_ infections linked to romaine lettuce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections and recalled Duncan Hines cake mix
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ infections linked to raw chicken products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to ground beef
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ infections linked to raw turkey products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to kosher chicken

New report on foodborne disease outbreaks

![cover of Surveillance for Foodborne Disease
Outbreaks](/ncezid/images/recent-work/foodborne-surveillance-2016-cover.jpg)

A new surveillance summary provides information on 839 foodborne disease
outbreaks reported to CDC in 2016. These outbreaks resulted in 14,259
illnesses, 875 hospitalizations, 17 deaths, and 18 food product recalls.
Norovirus (145 outbreaks) and _Salmonella_ (132 outbreaks) were the most
commonly reported causes. The most common food categories linked to outbreaks
were fish (26 outbreaks), mollusks (such as oysters and scallops, 21), dairy
(19), and pork (18). The food categories responsible for the most outbreak-
associated illnesses were mollusks (529 illnesses), pork (438), grains and
beans (383), and chicken (356). Restaurants were the most commonly reported
location where food was prepared (459 outbreaks), specifically restaurants
with sit-down dining (363).

The data come from reports that state, local, and territorial public health
agencies submitted to the Foodborne Disease Outbreak Surveillance System
through the National Outbreak Reporting System (NORS), and includes single-
state and multistate outbreaks.

Latest outbreaks linked to raw chicken, ground beef, and deli ham

![Package of raw ground beef](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ground-beef.jpg)

CDC is investigating several outbreaks linked to food products:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ Infantis infections has resulted in 92 cases reported from 29 states. Evidence suggests that many types of raw chicken products from a variety of sources are a likely source of this outbreak. Consumers and retailers should always handle raw chicken carefully and cook it thoroughly to prevent illness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC and USDA are investigating a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Newport infections linked to ground beef produced by JBS Tolleson, Inc., of Tolleson, Arizona. The company recalled approximately 6.5 million pounds of beef products that may be contaminated. As of October 23, 120 cases had been reported.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A multistate outbreak of _Listeria_ infections was linked to ready-to-eat deli ham produced by Johnston County Hams, Inc., in Smithfield, North Carolina. Several companies have recalled the ham products, and people should not eat, sell, or serve these recalled ready-to-eat ham products.

2016 Healthcare-Associated Infections Progress Report

CDC recently published the 2016 Healthcare-Associated Infections Progress
Report, which shows year-to-year progress on the prevention of key healthcare-
associated infections (HAIs) to highlight progress and target areas for
improvement.

The report shows that overall, prevention progress has been made, but more
work is needed. Specifically, acute care hospitals saw significant reductions
in most HAIs across the board, with the exception of some types of surgical
site infections. Greatest prevention improvements were seen for central line-
associated bloodstream infections, particularly in neonatal intensive care
units.

The 2016 HAI Progress Report is the first report to measure year-to-year HAI
prevention progress against the 2015 baseline and is the first progress report
to be published in the AR Patient Safety Atlas. Moving forward, CDC will
publish progress report data in the Atlas to make the data more accessible and
easier to view.

Think Travel Campaign Launch

![image from campaign - feet of patient in doctors office where floor
transitions to a hiking path. words - your patients cover a lot of ground.
help them stay healthy before, during, and after their trip abroad. learn
how.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/travelers-health-patient.jpg)

CDC's Travelers' Health launched the Think Travel campaign for healthcare
providers to build greater awareness of the need to incorporate travel health
into patient care. The campaign includes resources to help providers talk with
patients before and after their trips about health risks and possible
exposures related to travel.

CDC expert talks to Dr. Oz about dogs and germs

![Dr. Casey Barton Behravesh speaks with television's Dr. Oz on his
show](/ncezid/images/recent-work/dr-barton-dr-oz.jpg)

Dr. Casey Barton Behravesh, a veterinarian and Director of the CDC One Health
Office, appeared on an episode of The Dr. Oz ShowExternal to discuss recent
reports of _Capnocytophaga_ infections in people linked to dogs. On the show,
Dr. Barton Behravesh explained the facts about this rare disease, while also
providing tips on how to stay healthy while enjoying your dogs and other pets.

AMR Challenge

![Words on black background - Commit to action, deliver results, combat
antibiotic resistance](/ncezid/images/recent-work/amr-committ-to-action.jpg)

During the United Nations (UN) General Assembly on September 25, the United
States launched the AMR Challenge, a yearlong effort spearheaded by HHS and
CDC to call global stakeholders to action on antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
During the kick-off, participants described the global threat of AMR and its
impact on all people and industries, underscored how everyone can slow its
development and spread, and highlighted success stories. The event included
organizations that had already made commitments or submitted a commitment in
at least one of five action categories: infection prevention and control;
antibiotic use; vaccine, therapeutic, and diagnostic development; environment
and sanitation; and tracking and data. To date, there have been 99 commitments
from over 100 partner organizations and countries.

CDC supports Sepsis Awareness Month

![Get ahead of sepsis. Know the risks. Spot the signs. Act
fast.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/sepsis.jpg)

September was Sepsis Awareness Month, and marked the 1-year anniversary of the
launch of Get Ahead of Sepsis, CDC's national educational effort that promotes
early recognition and timely treatment of sepsis, as well as the prevention of
infections that could lead to sepsis. Each year, at least 1.7 million
Americans develop sepsis, and nearly 270,000 die as a result. As part of
outreach efforts, CDC launched this public service announcement.

Advising travelers and clinicians about leptospirosis in Israel

![orange background with words This is an official CDC health advisory
](/ncezid/images/recent-work/health-advisory.jpg)

As of September 6, 2018, three US cases of leptospirosis were identified among
travelers who had visited Israel, with additional suspected cases reported and
under investigation. Meanwhile, dozens of cases have been confirmed in Israel
by the Ministry of Health, and hundreds more people have reported symptoms.
The outbreak has affected people who had been exposed to seven natural water
sources in the Golan Heights region of northern Israel. In response, CDC
quickly developed and posted a Health Alert Network (HAN) advisory alerting
clinicians to the travel-associated risks and advising them about appropriate
diagnosis and treatment methods. CDC also posted a Watch Level 1 Travel
Notice.

New "I Am CDC" videos spotlight NCEZID staff

![Screen shot from I am CDC video with NCEZID's Amanda MacGurn
](/ncezid/images/homepage/i-am-cdc.jpg)

Check out two new "I Am CDC" videos that spotlight NCEZID employees and their
work. Amanda MacGurn highlights her time with CDC's Global Border Health Team,
where she works with authorities in international airports and other points of
entry in French-speaking West African countries to help them plan for
infectious disease outbreaks. And CDC entomologist Janet McAllister discusses
her work as a research entomologist in Fort Collins, CO, and remembers helping
Miami-area communities control mosquitoes during the Zika outbreak there.

Ebola in Nord-Kivu Province, Democratic Republic of the Congo

![Image showing ebola virus ecology and transmission - more details here
https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/resources/virus-
ecology.html](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ebola-transmission.jpg)

Only one week after the Ebola outbreak in western Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC) was declared over on July 24, an unrelated cluster of Ebola cases was
reported about 800 miles away in Nord-Kivu Province in the eastern part of the
country, along the border with Uganda. Since then, the outbreak has spread and
sickened more people. CDC is working closely with the DRC Ministry of Health,
the World Health Organization, and other international partners. CDC has
deployed Ebola experts from its Viral Special Pathogens Branch to provide on-
the-ground assistance in Beni, near the outbreak's epicenter. Additional staff
have contributed to outbreak management from WHO in Geneva and provided lab
training and assistance to Rwandan health officials. Additionally, CDC is
assisting with border health, risk communications, community engagement,
emergency response management, and other areas. The remote location of the
outbreak's epicenter, combined with security concerns, are challenges
responders are working to overcome. See CDC's Ebola website for additional
information.

Contact Lens Health Week: Healthy habits mean healthy eyes

![Contact lens week august 20-24, 2018
www.cdc.gov/contactlens](/ncezid/images/recent-work/contact-lens-week.jpg)

August 20-24 marked the fifth annual Contact Lens Health Week, organized by
CDC in close collaboration with partners as a strategy to increase public
awareness and promote healthy contact lens wear and care.

While contact lenses are usually a safe and effective form of vision
correction, they are not entirely risk-free - especially if they are not cared
for properly. Learn more about taking care of contact lenses and read a new
MMWR article describing a case series of people who developed eye infections
linked to sleeping in lenses.

2018 International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases

![illustration of atlanta city line with 10th International Conference on
Emerging Infectious Diseases 1998-2018 August 26-29, 2018
www.iceid.org](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ICEID2018.jpg)

CDC held its 10th occurrence of the International Conference on Emerging
Infectious Diseases (ICEID)External from August 26-29 in Atlanta, GA. Held
every 2-3 years, the conference brought together more than 1,500 public health
professionals from around the world to encourage the exchange of the latest
information on issues affecting the emergence, spread, and control of
infectious diseases. Major topics for ICEID 2018 included surveillance and
outbreak response, laboratory diagnostics and systems, factors affecting
disease emergence and control, and public health preparedness.

New toolkit for healthcare providers on Rocky Mountain spotted fever

![Image of sick child holding a teddy bear with words - Rocky Mountain spotted
fever can be deadly. Learn more, earn free CE](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/tickborne-disease-ce.jpg)

Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is the most deadly tickborne disease in
the United States. Each year, 3,000-5,000 cases of RMSF and other spotted
fever rickettsioses are reported in the US, including 5-10 deaths and
substantially more severe cases. Effective treatment is available, and severe
and fatal cases of RMSF can be prevented through early recognition and
treatment. CDC has a new toolkit for healthcare providers, epidemiologists,
and public health practitioners to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of RMSF
and other tickborne diseases. The toolkit includes free Continuing Education
in seven professional categories: CME, CNE, CEU, CECH, AAVSB/RACE, CPE, and
CPH.

New pool health code released

![cropped-image-mahc-code](/ncezid/images/recent-work/mahc-code.jpg)

CDC has released the 2018 edition of the Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC).
Government officials and the aquatics sector can use the MAHC to **create or
update existing pool codes** and reduce risk of outbreaks, drowning, and pool-
chemical injuries. Learn how the MAHC helps make swimming and other water
activities healthier and safer.

Outbreaks linked to food products

CDC is investigating several outbreaks linked to food products.

![Box of Honey Smacks cereal](/ncezid/images/recent-work/honey-smacks.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ Reading infections has been linked to raw turkey products in 26 states, resulting in 90 cases of illnesses of July 11. Raw turkey should always be handled carefully and cooked thoroughly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Food Safety Alert was issued for a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Sandiego linked to Spring Pasta Salad at Hy-Vee grocery stores in five states, with 21 people infected as of July 1. Consumers should not eat recalled Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A multistate outbreak of _Vibrio parahaemolyticus_ infections has been linked to fresh crab meat imported from Venezuela. Twelve people in three states and the District of Columbia have been reported to be infected after eating fresh crab meat from Venezuela. Consumers should not eat, restaurants should not serve, and retailers should not sell fresh crab meat imported from Venezuela at this time.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC continues to investigate a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Mbandaka infections linked to Kellogg's Honey Smacks Cereal. As of July 12, 100 people had been infected in 33 states. CDC continues to recommend that consumers not eat any Kellogg's Honey Smacks cereal.

New CDC Museum exhibit on refugee health

![Image of man in life preserver holding a boy. Both with beautiful
smiles.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/refugee-health-exhibit.jpg)

A new CDC Museum exhibit, _The Refugee Journey to Wellbeing_ , provides
insight into refugee health and the resettlement process. The exhibit
introduces visitors to the programs and processes supporting refugee health
along the journey from displacement to resettlement in the United States. Its
installation at the David J. Sencer CDC Museum is the first public showing of
this hands-on exhibit, created in 2016 by CDC's Division of Global Migration
and Quarantine, and the Emergency Response and Recovery Branch, Division of
Global Health Protection, in partnership with the American Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene. The exhibit will be on display from July 9-October 5,
2018.

Multistate foodborne disease outbreaks linked to backyard poultry, pre-cut
melons, and cereal

CDC is working with state and federal partners to investigate several
multistate outbreaks, including the following:

![illustration of assorted poultry and hands washing under water with text-
always wash your hands after handling live
poultry](/ncezid/images/homepage/washing-hand-poultry.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to live poultry in backyard flocks. As of June 1, 124 sick people have been reported from 36 states; 31% of those people are children younger than 5 years old. Since 2000, 70 outbreaks of _Salmonella_ infections have been linked to contact with backyard flocksCdc-pdf.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to pre-cut watermelon, honeydew, cantaloupe, and fruit salad mixes with melon. Of the 70 ill people reported as of June 19, most are older than 60; 34 people have been hospitalized. On June 8, Caito Foods recalled pre-cut melon products that were sold in many different stores in Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, North Carolina, and Ohio. A list of the recalled products is posted on FDA's websiteExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to Kellogg's Honey Smacks Cereal _(see our tweet, retweeted by HHS Secretary Alex Azar, above)_. As of June 15, the outbreak had sickened 73 people in 31 states. On June 14, the Kellogg Company recalledExternal Kellogg's Honey Smacks cereal. People should not eat Kellogg's Honey Smacks cereal, and retailers should not sell or serve recalled cereal.

Anthrax in Uganda

![two people inspecting a cow laying on its side in the
grass](/ncezid/images/recent-work/uganda-cow.jpg)

CDC sent staff to help local health officials investigate and control several
anthrax outbreaks in Uganda. To date, there have been more than 150 probable
human cases and more than 700 livestock deaths. While in the field, they
investigated cases in animals and humans, collected specimens, and provided
recommendations for postexposure prophylaxis and guidance on surveillance and
anthrax control among livestock. They also helped local lab officials set up
training and testing at non-traditional sites like an agricultural institute
and regional vet lab. Confirmatory testing is under way in Uganda. Though the
team has returned to Atlanta, CDC continues to work closely with Uganda on the
ongoing outbreaks.

WIRED video stars CDC staff

![screenshot of wired video called the disease
detectives](/ncezid/images/recent-work/wired-disease-detectives.jpg)

NCEZID staff from the Division of High Consequence Pathogens and Pathology
were featured in a video by WIRED, in which they demonstrated donning personal
protective equipment (PPE), told war stories about getting infested with fly
larva, and talked about missing family and how hot and uncomfortable our work
abroad can be. The WIRED video series "What's In Your Bag?" highlights the
special equipment that various professionals take when they travel. The
17-minute recording is available on YouTube and WIRED's site.

Tickborne Diseases Manual

![Thumbnail image of cover for Tickborne Diseases
Manual](/ncezid/images/recent-work/tickborne-disease-us.jpg)

CDC released an updated reference manual for healthcare providers on tickborne
diseases of the United States. Tickborne diseases are becoming more common,
and from May through July, people will get more tick bites and tickborne
diseases than any other time of year in the United States. Healthcare
providers should be aware of the risks for tickborne diseases as well as ways
to prevent, diagnosis, and treat them.

The manual provides information to help clinicians:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recognize the signs of tickborne disease,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Understand diagnostic tests and lab findings, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quickly find treatment recommendations

Responding to a rapidly evolving Ebola outbreak in DRC

![cropped map of 2018 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola
Outbreak](/ncezid/images/homepage/ebola-2018-small.jpg)

CDC is working closely with the Ministry of Public Health of the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC), the World Health Organization (WHO), and other
partners to investigate an outbreak of Ebola virus disease in the northwestern
part of the country. A CDC Ebola Coordination Team in Atlanta is managing the
agency's efforts to support the response in several areas, including
epidemiology, laboratory diagnostics, infection prevention and control, border
protection, emergency operations, risk communication, and vaccination
strategy. As of June 6, WHO had reported a total of 60 Ebola cases (37
confirmed, 14 probable, and 9 suspected), including 27 deaths, since early
April. Reports of several confirmed cases in Mbandaka (population 1.5 million)
along the Congo River have raised concerns about the risk of disease spreading
within DRC and to neighboring countries. On May 18, a WHO emergency committee
assessed the situation in DRC and determined that current conditions do not
support declaring a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. Learn
more about the outbreak.

New rabies test offers fast, accurate option for doctors and patients

![A street dog lying between the camera and her
puppies](/ncezid/images/recent-work/street-dog-puppies.jpg)

A new rabies test developed by CDC and partner organizations could result in
people who've been exposed to potentially rabid animals foregoing the weeks-
long regimen of shots needed to prevent the deadly disease. The new LN34 test,
designed for use in animals, can more easily and precisely diagnose rabies
infection, according to a study recently published in PLOS OneExternal. During
the pilot study, the test produced no false negatives, fewer false positives,
and fewer inconclusive results. It could allow doctors and patients to make
better informed decisions about who needs treatment for rabies.

"Many of the areas hardest hit by rabies are also the areas least prepared to
run current tests to diagnose it," said Crystal Gigante, the study's first
author. "The LN34 test has the potential to really change the playing field.
Quickly knowing who needs to receive rabies treatment--and who does not--will
save lives and families' livelihoods."

Alaskan hunters, biologists, and diarrhea-causing protozoa

![Picture of smiling young woman in winter weather
clothes](/ncezid/images/recent-work/alaskan-young-woman.jpg)

Many Alaskans have a close relationship with their environment, which often
puts them into contact with wild animals--and potentially zoonotic infectious
agents. Researchers in DPEI's Arctic Investigations Program have been studying
how some groups of Alaskans might be exposed to certain infectious agents,
specifically the diarrheal-disease causing _Giardia duodenalis_ and
_Cryptosporidium_ species. They recently published a studyExternal that
identifies the seroprevalence for these two intestinal protozoa among wildlife
biologists, sport hunters, and subsistence hunters and their families.  The
study showed increased exposure to _Giardia_ among persons living in
communities with less access to in-home running water and sanitation services.
The study's findings establish a baseline for exposure to two important
infectious organisms that are likely to be affected by changes in the
environment; this is an important resource to evaluate changes over time.

Illnesses on the rise from mosquito, tick, and flea bites

![screenshot with words - better control of ticks and mosquitoes is needed to
protect people from these diseases](/ncezid/images/recent-work/screenshot-
tick-vitalsigns.jpg)

Almost everyone has been bitten by a mosquito, tick, or flea. These can be
vectors for spreading pathogens (germs). A person who gets bitten by a vector
and gets sick has a vector-borne disease, like dengue, Zika, Lyme, or plague.
Between 2004 and 2016, more than 640,000 cases of these diseases were
reported, and 9 new germs spread by bites from infected mosquitoes and ticks
were discovered or introduced in the US. State and local health departments
and vector control organizations are the nation's main defense against this
increasing threat. Yet, 84% of local vector control organizations lack at
least 1 of 5 core vector control competencies. Better control of mosquitoes
and ticks is needed to protect people from these costly and deadly diseases.
Learn more in the May issue of Vital Signs.

_E. coli_ O157:H7 infections and romaine lettuce

![head of romaine lettuce next to a bowl full of chopped romaine
lettuce](/ncezid/images/recent-work/romaine-lettuce-e-coli.jpg)

CDC is working with several state and federal partners to investigate a
multistate outbreak of _Escherichia coli_ O157:H7 infections linked to romaine
lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region. Within eight days of first
detecting the outbreak in PulseNet, CDC and its partners warned US consumers
to throw away all store-bought chopped romaine lettuce at home, including
salads and salad mixes containing chopped romaine. Restaurants and retailers
were told not to serve or sell any chopped romaine from the Yuma, Arizona
growing region. As the team learned more, the warning was expanded to include
all romaine lettuce, including whole heads and hearts of romaine lettuce. No
deaths have been reported. This outbreak investigation is ongoing.

_Salmonella_ Braenderup infections linked to shell eggs

![full carton of eggs, slightly open](/ncezid/images/recent-work/carton-eggs-
salmonella.jpg)

CDC and partners also are investigating a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_
Braenderup infections linked to shell eggs. As of April 19, at least 23 cases
of _Salmonella_ Braenderup in 9 states had been identified. Rose Acre Farms
and Cal-Maine Foods, Inc. recalled over 206 million eggs sold under various
brand names. People should not eat, and restaurants and retailers should not
serve or sell, recalled eggs. The investigation is ongoing.

Lassa fever in Nigeria

![electron micrograph of lassa fever white and black](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/lassa-fever-nigeria.jpg)

CDC provided technical assistance to the Nigeria Center for Disease Control
for an outbreak of Lassa fever, a potentially life-threatening disease found
in much of West Africa. Nigeria experiences annual increases in Lassa fever
cases during the dry season, but this year's outbreak caused great concern due
to its size and geographic spread during the early months. From early January,
when the outbreak began, to April 15, a total of 413 confirmed cases and 105
deaths had been reported.However, the reported numbers of cases and deaths
have been declining in recent weeks.

Containing Unusual Resistance

![Map illustration with the words: The nation can identify and respond to
unusual antibiotic resistance. Text version here -
https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/containing-unusual-
resistance/infographic.html#infographic](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/containment.jpg)

More than 23,000 Americans die each year from infections caused by germs
resistant to antibiotics. While antibiotic resistance (AR) threats vary
nationwide, AR has been found in every state. And unusual resistance germs,
which are resistant to all or most antibiotics tested and are uncommon or
carry special resistance genes, are constantly developing and spreading. Lab
tests uncovered unusual resistance more than 200 times in 2017 in "nightmare
bacteria" alone. Learn more in the current issue of Vital Signs.

CDC helps South Africa investigate listeriosis outbreak

![3D illustration of listeria rods](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/listeria-3d.jpg)

Since November, CDC has been providing technical assistance to the South
Africa National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) on the world's
largest known outbreak of listeriosis _._ The outbreak has led to almost 1,000
illnesses and more than 180 deaths since January 2017. NICD conducted
interviews of sick people, and product and environmental testing, and found
that the outbreak was linked to polony, a type of processed meat.

CDC and Haiti partner to prevent rabies

![Man with a bag of medical equipment is surrounded by children with their
dogs](/ncezid/images/recent-work/rabies-dog-vaccine.jpg)

Approximately 130 people die from rabies in Haiti each year. CDC is working
with the Haiti Ministry of Agriculture to prevent more deaths by improving dog
vaccination coverage. More than 210,000 dogs have been vaccinated against
rabies since the campaign kicked off in October 2017. CDC and partners are
utilizing a new strategy, which uses mobile phones to provide daily direction
to rabies vaccinators and to track vaccinated dogs.

Multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ infections linked to dairy calves

![calf drinking from a bottle](/ncezid/images/recent-work/dairy-milk.jpg)

CDC has closed its investigation of a multistate outbreak of multidrug-
resistant _Salmonella_ Heidelberg infections linked to bull calves. A total of
56 people in 15 states were infected with _Salmonella_ linked to dairy calves.
Illnesses could continue because people may not know they could get a
_Salmonella_ infection from contact with dairy calves or other cattle. It is
important to take steps to stay healthy around cattle.

CDC and public health labs reach milestone

![Image of a graph showing more outbreaks solved and fewer cases per outbreaks
using Next Generation Sequencing](/ncezid/images/recent-work/listeria-
sequencing.jpg)

Last month, CDC and public health laboratory partners transitioned from
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)--used for the past 20 years--to whole
genome sequencing (WGS) to conduct outbreak surveillance of _Listeria_. Since
2013, a nationwide _Listeria_ pilot using WGS resulted in more outbreaks being
detected with fewer cases compared with older methods like PFGE. Disease
detectives identified foods like ice cream, frozen vegetables, and caramel
apples as outbreak sources; this information helped to make these foods safer
for the public.

_MMWR_ : Outbreak of _Campylobacter_ infections linked to raw milk consumption
from herdshare dairy

![an image of a group of dairy products](/ncezid/images/recent-work/dairy.jpg)

Raw (unpasteurized) milk has been linked to many foodborne illnesses,
including _Campylobacter_ infections. Find out what happened after public
health investigators learned of people becoming sick after drinking raw milk
distributed through a herdshare program in Colorado.

Frozen shredded coconut linked to outbreak

![Closeup of shredded coconut](/ncezid/images/recent-work/coconut.jpg)

CDC and state and federal partners are investigating a multistate outbreak of
_Salmonella_ infections linked to frozen shredded coconut. On January 3, 2018,
Evershing International Trading Company recalledExternal all 16 oz. bags of
Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut.  
CDC recommends retailers not sell, restaurants not serve, and consumers not
eat recalled product.

New data in CDC's Antibiotic Resistance Map released

![image of Antibiotic Resistance \(AR\) Investment Map](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/ar-map_1.jpg)

On January 10, CDC released new data in its Antibiotic Resistance (AR)
Investment Map showcasing CDC's activities to slow antibiotic resistance and
meet national goals. The updated map for 2018 includes more than 170 state-
reported successes in addressing AR problems. These are the first
comprehensive reports on state progress made following the first year of
Congress's unprecedented investment in CDC's Antibiotic Resistance Solutions
Initiative. The map also features printable state- and city-specific fact
sheets that describe how CDC invests in activities in those areas.

Page last reviewed: December 7, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home NCEZID

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Division and Office Overviewsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DFWED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DGMQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHCPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHQP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DPEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DSR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DVBD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OAMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organizational Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Director Profile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strategic Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Our Name
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CLIA Certificates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Connect with Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs Newplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newsroom 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recent Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Border Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Deadly Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Foodborne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare-Associated Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Public Health Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State, Local, and Tribal Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Technological Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne and Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cross-cutting Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Health at Home & Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID Around The World
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tribal Health in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Innovationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Biothreats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hantavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Whole Genome Sequencing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Future Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Moving the needle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Breaking the mold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Collaborating to make a difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Combating infections in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Confronting infections across the globe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Observing significant milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting Patients from Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting People from Domestic Health Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fighting Global Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Safeguarding Travelers & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Building Lab and Epi Capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Our Year in Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Vector-borne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Global & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Domestic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Global)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Support to States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Lab Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2014 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2013 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2011-2012 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Partnersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and Hilton Foundation partner to improve global water, sanitation, and hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Center of Excellence Provides Much-Needed Assistance After Hurricane Harvey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New rapid rabies test could revolutionize testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hatcheries work with CDC to prevent _Salmonella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthier and safer in the water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The power of innovation to advance public health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent illnesses between people and pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID partners on cryptococcal screening in South Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and BD Partner to Fight Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World leaders partner to combat antibiotic resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Airline helps CDC save lives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Turning human waste into affordable fuel in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Promoting Antibiotic Stewardship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 100 Partners Work to Promote Safe Injection Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting People in Haiti from Deadly Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strengthening Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Workforce in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Making Plague a Disease of the Past in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing New Tools To Fight Monkeypox Outbreaks in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ending Cholera Globally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improving Diagnoses of Zika and Other Vector-Borne Diseases in Indonesia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Newborns in India from Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training Infection Prevention and Control Specialists in Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Responds to a Dangerous Fungus Here and Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance in India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epidemiology Training Helps Cholera Response in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Response in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HAIs in the Country of Georgia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Research in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CHAMPS Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Rabies Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zoonotic Diseases in Ethiopia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Reservoir Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animations and Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive a monthly update highlighting our recent work to prevent infectious
disease, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

