Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000797.htm    
                                Description: Phencyclidine (PCP) is an illegal street drug that usually comes as a white powder, which can be dissolved in alcohol or water. It can be bought as a powder or liquid.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use - phencyclidine (PCP)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000797.htm

# Substance use - phencyclidine (PCP)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Phencyclidine (PCP) is an illegal street drug that usually comes as a white
powder, which can be dissolved in alcohol or water. It can be bought as a
powder or liquid.

PCP can be used in different ways:

      * Inhaled through the nose (snorted)
      * Injected into a vein (shooting up)
      * Smoked
      * Swallowed 

Street names for PCP include angel dust, embalming fluid, hog, killer weed,
love boat, ozone, peace pill, rocket fuel, super grass, wack.

## PCP's Effects on Your Brain

PCP is a mind-altering drug. This means it acts on your brain (central nervous
system) and changes your mood, behavior, and the way you relate to the world
around you. Scientists think it blocks the normal actions of certain brain
chemicals.

PCP is in a class of drugs called hallucinogens. These are substances that
cause hallucinations. These are things that you see, hear, or feel while awake
that appear to be real, but instead have been created by the mind.

PCP is also known as a dissociative drug. It causes you to feel separated from
your body and surroundings. Using PCP may make you feel:

      * You are floating and disconnected from reality.
      * Joy (euphoria, or "rush") and less inhibition, similar to being drunk on alcohol.
      * Your sense of thinking is extremely clear, and that you have superhuman strength and aren't afraid of anything. 

How fast you feel the effects of PCP depends on how you use it:

      * Shooting up. Through a vein, PCP's effects start within 2 to 5 minutes.
      * Smoked. The effects begin within 2 to 5 minutes, peaking at 15 to 30 minutes.
      * Swallowed. In pill form or mixed with food or drinks, PCP's effects usually start within 30 minutes. The effects tend to peak in about 2 to 5 hours. 

## Harmful Effects of PCP

PCP can also have unpleasant effects:

      * Low to moderate doses can cause numbness throughout your body and loss of coordination.
      * Large doses may cause you to be very suspicious and not trust others. You might even hear voices that are not there. As a result, you may act strangely or become aggressive and violent. 

PCP's other harmful effects include:

      * It can increase heart rate, blood pressure, breathing rate, and body temperature. At high doses, PCP can have an opposite and dangerous effect on these functions.
      * Because of the pain-killing (analgesic) properties of PCP, if you get seriously injured, you might not feel pain.
      * Using PCP for a long time can cause memory loss, thinking problems, and problems talking clearly, such as slurring words or stuttering.
      * Mood problems, such as depression or anxiety can develop. This can lead to suicide attempts.
      * A very large dose, usually from taking PCP by mouth, may cause kidney failure, heart arrhythmias, muscle rigidity, seizures, or death. 

## PCP can be Addictive

People who use PCP can get psychologically addicted to it. This means their
mind is dependent on PCP. They are not able to control their use of it and
they need PCP to get through daily life.

Addiction can lead to tolerance. Tolerance means you need more and more PCP to
get the same high. If you try to stop using, you may have reactions. These are
called withdrawal symptoms, and may include:

      * Feeling fear, unease, and worry (anxiety)
      * Feeling stirred up, excited, tense, confused, or irritable (agitation), having hallucinations
      * Physical reactions may include muscle breakdown or twitching, weight loss, increased body temperature, or seizures. 

## Treatment Options

Treatment begins with recognizing there is a problem. Once you decide you want
to do something about your PCP use, the next step is to get help and support.

Treatment programs use behavior change techniques through counseling (talk
therapy). The aim is to help you understand your behaviors and why you use
PCP. Involving family and friends during counseling can help support you and
keep you from going back to using (relapsing).

If you have severe withdrawal symptoms, you may need to stay at a live-in
treatment program. There, your health and safety can be monitored as you
recover. Medicines may be used to treat withdrawal symptoms.

At this time, there is no medicine that can help reduce the use of PCP by
blocking its effects. But, scientists are researching such medicines.

## Your Ongoing Recovery

As you recover, focus on the following to help prevent relapse:

      * Keep going to your treatment sessions.
      * Find new activities and goals to replace the ones that involved your PCP use.
      * Spend more time with family and friends with whom you lost touch while you were using. Consider not seeing friends who are still using PCP.
      * Exercise and eat healthy foods. Taking care of your body helps it heal from the harmful effects of PCP. You will feel better, too.
      * Avoid triggers. These can be people you used PCP with. Triggers can also be places, things, or emotions that can make you want to use it again.

## Resources

Resources that may help you on your road to recovery include:

      * Partnership for drug-Free Kids -- drugfree.org
      * LifeRing -- lifering.org
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org
      * Narcotics Anonymous -- www.na.org

Your workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good resource.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or someone you
know is addicted to PCP and needs help stopping. Also call if you are having
withdrawal symptoms that concern you.

## Alternative Names

PCP; Substance abuse - phencyclidine; Drug abuse - phencyclidine; Drug use -
phencyclidine

## References

Iwanicki JL. Hallucinogens. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 150.

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 50.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Research report series:
Hallucinogens and dissociative drugs.
www.drugabuse.gov/sites/default/files/hallucinogensrrs.pdf. Updated January
2014. Accessed June 1, 2018.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Club Drugs

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

