Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000792.htm    
                                Description: Amphetamines are drugs. They can be legal or illegal. They are legal when they are prescribed by a doctor and used to treat health problems such as obesity, narcolepsy, or attention deficit hyperactivity    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use - amphetamines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000792.htm

# Substance use - amphetamines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amphetamines are drugs. They can be legal or illegal. They are legal when they
are prescribed by a doctor and used to treat health problems such as obesity,
narcolepsy, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Using
amphetamines can lead to addiction.

Amphetamines are illegal when they are used without a prescription to get high
or improve performance. In this case, they are known as street, or
recreational drugs, and using them can lead to addiction. This article
describes this aspect of amphetamines.

## Types of Illegal Amphetamines

There are different kinds of street amphetamines. Common ones and some of
their slang terms are:

      * Amphetamine: goey, louee, speed, uppers, whiz
      * Dextroamphetamine (ADHD medicine used illegally): dexies, kiddie-speed, pep pills, uppers; black beauty (when combined with amphetamine)
      * Methamphetamine (crystal solid form): base, crystal, d-meth, fast, glass, ice, meth, speed, whiz, pure, wax
      * Methamphetamine (liquid form): leopard's blood, liquid red, ox blood, red speed

Illegal amphetamines come in different forms:

      * Pills and capsules
      * Powder and paste
      * Crystal
      * Liquid

They can be used in different ways:

      * Swallowed
      * Dabbed onto the gums
      * Inhaled through the nose (snorted)
      * Injected into a vein (shooting up)
      * Smoked

## Amphetamines Effects on Your Brain

Amphetamines are stimulant drugs. They make the messages between your brain
and body move faster. As a result, you are more alert and physically active.
Some people use amphetamines to help them stay awake on the job or to study
for a test. Others use them to boost their performance in sports.

Amphetamines also cause the brain to release dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical
that is involved with mood, thinking, and movement. It is also called the
feel-good brain chemical. Using amphetamines may cause pleasurable effects
such as:

      * Joy (euphoria, or "flash" or "rush") and less inhibition, similar to being drunk
      * Feeling as if your thinking is extremely clear
      * Feeling more in control, self-confident 
      * Wanting to be with and talk to people (more sociable)
      * Increased energy

How fast you feel the effects of amphetamines depends on how they are used:

      * Smoking or injecting into a vein (shooting up): Effects (the "rush") start right away and are intense and last a few minutes.
      * Snorting: Effects (the "high") start in 3 to 5 minutes, are less intense than smoking or injecting, and last 15 to 30 minutes.
      * Taken by mouth: Effects ("high") start in 15 to 20 minutes and last longer than smoking, injecting, or snorting, depending on how much is taken.

## Harmful Effects of Amphetamines

Amphetamines can harm the body in many ways, and lead to:

      * Appetite decrease and weight loss
      * Heart problems such as fast heart rate, irregular heartbeat, increased blood pressure, and heart attack
      * High body temperature and skin flushing
      * Memory loss problems thinking clearly, and stroke
      * Mood and emotional problems such as aggressive or violent behavior, depression, and suicide
      * Ongoing hallucinations and inability to tell what is real
      * Restlessness and tremors
      * Skin sores
      * Sleep problems
      * Tooth decay (meth mouth)
      * Death

People who use these drugs, especially methamphetamine, have a high chance of
getting HIV and hepatitis B and C. This can be through sharing used needles
with someone who has an infection. Or, it can be through having unsafe sex
because drug use can lead to risky behaviors.

Amphetamines can cause birth defects when taken during pregnancy. Also, street
drugs are not safe during breastfeeding.

## Amphetamines can be Addictive

You usually DO NOT get addicted to prescription amphetamines when you take
them at the right dosage to treat your health condition.

Addiction happens when you use amphetamines to get high or improve
performance. Addiction means your body and mind are dependent on the drug. You
are not able to control your use of it and you need it to get through daily
life.

Addiction can lead to tolerance. Tolerance means you need more and more of the
drug to get the same high feeling. And if you try to stop using, your mind and
body may have reactions. These are called withdrawal symptoms, and may
include:

      * Strong craving for the drug
      * Having mood swings that range from feeling depressed to agitated to anxious
      * Feeling tired all day
      * Not able to concentrate
      * Seeing or hearing things that are not there (hallucinations)
      * Physical reactions may include headaches, aches and pains, increased appetite, not sleeping well

## Treatment Options

Treatment begins with recognizing there is a problem. Once you decide you want
to do something about your drug use, the next step is to get help and support.

Treatment programs use behavior change techniques through counseling (talk
therapy). The goal is to help you understand your behaviors and why you use
amphetamines. Involving family and friends during counseling can help support
you and keep you from going back to using (relapsing).

If you have severe withdrawal symptoms, you may need to stay at a live-in
treatment program. There, your health and safety can be monitored as you
recover.

At this time, there is no medicine that can help reduce the use of
amphetamines by blocking their effects. But, scientists are researching such
medicines.

## Your Ongoing Recovery

As you recover, focus on the following to help prevent relapse:

      * Keep going to your treatment sessions.
      * Find new activities and goals to replace the ones that involved your drug use.
      * Spend more time with family and friends you lost touch with while you were using. Consider not seeing friends who are still using.
      * Exercise and eat healthy foods. Taking care of your body helps it heal from the harmful effects of drug use. You will feel better, too.
      * Avoid triggers. These can be people you used drugs with. They can also be places, things, or emotions that can make you want to use again.

## Resources

Resources that may help you on your road to recovery include:

      * The Partnership for Drug-free Kids -- drugfree.org
      * LifeRing -- lifering.org
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org

Your workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good resource.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or someone you
know is addicted to amphetamines and needs help to stop using. Also call if
you are having withdrawal symptoms that concern you.

## Alternative Names

Substance abuse - amphetamines; Drug abuse - amphetamines; Drug use -
amphetamines

## References

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
50.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Methamphetamine.
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/methamphetamine/what-
methamphetamine. Updated September 2013. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Weiss RD. Drugs of abuse. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 4/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Club Drugs
      * Methamphetamine

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

