

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Our Work: 2017

Minus

Related Pages

### Our Work - 2017

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * November
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * August
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * April
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * March
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * February
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * January

CDC continues supporting the hurricane response

![Brightly colored home is battered by winds and waves](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/hurricane-reponse.jpg)

CDC staff deployments related to health issues caused by the three hurricanes
continue in Houston, Puerto Rico, and the US Virgin Islands. In October, a CDC
mycotics team helped the Texas Department of State Health Services investigate
possible invasive mold infections associated with widespread flooding and
indoor mold growth after Hurricane Harvey. Other staff have assisted the
Puerto Rico Department of Health staff in identifying lab needs for clinical
testing, and initiated a specimen transport system. This work enabled the
public health lab to ship specimens to CDC and resume testing of priority
pathogens. CDC epidemiologists helped lead the development of enhanced disease
surveillance in Veterans Affairs (VA)External health facilities in Puerto
Rico. This collaboration between CDC and VA has provided crucial information
about post-hurricane public health concerns on the island.

Still other CDC staff have been heavily involved with CDC's Emergency
Operations Center's response to cases of leptospirosis in Puerto Rico and USVI
following hurricanes Irma and Maria in September. CDC's labs have been testing
samples received from Puerto Rico since October 20, and confirmed and probable
cases continue to be identified.

Two _Salmonella_ outbreaks linked to animals

![Closeup picture of baby turtle on a finger](/ncezid/images/recent-work/baby-
turtles.jpg)

Two ongoing multistate _Salmonella_ outbreaks remind us to always wash our
hands after handling livestock, reptiles, and other animals. As of November
14, an outbreak of multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ Heidelberg infections
linked to dairy calves has affected 54 people in 15 states. Additionally, as
of November 16, a total of 66 ill people in 18 states had been reported in the
multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Agbeni infections linked to pet turtles.

Anthrax kills hippos and Cape buffalo in Namibia

![Team of people in a group in front of large
machinery](/ncezid/images/recent-work/anthrax-nambia-hippo.jpg)

In Bwabwata National Park, Namibia, a recent anthrax outbreak left more than a
hundred lifeless hippopotami floating in the Okavango River. A CDC
epidemiologist traveled to Namibia in October to assist with the outbreak
investigation. A large number of Cape buffalo were also found dead and are
undergoing testing for anthrax. So far these are the only species that have
been identified as being affected.

As of November 14, more than 700 people have reportedly been exposed to the
bacterium that causes anthrax. Most of these people received and have
completed 14 days' worth of ciprofloxacin for postexposure prophylaxis. For
now, there have been no identified symptomatic human cases of anthrax
(cutaneous or gastrointestinal). CDC continues to help Namibian health
officials prevent further spread of the disease.

CDC launches new Be Antibiotics Aware educational effort during US Antibiotic
Awareness Week

![Image of Antibiotic Awareness](/ncezid/images/recent-work/be-antibiotic-
aware.jpg)

CDC marked the beginning of US Antibiotic Awareness Week on November 13 by
launching _Be Antibiotics Aware_ , an nationwide communication effort aimed at
optimizing antibiotic prescribing among healthcare providers and educating
patients and the public about appropriate antibiotic use. This important work
dovetails with many CDC antibiotic resistance efforts, specifically the August
launch of the Get Ahead of Sepsis educational effort.

![Image of 3 adorable puppies on a white background](/ncezid/images/what-we-
do/puppies-camp.jpg)

**_Campylobacter_** **outbreaks linked to puppies**

_Campylobacter_ (a type of bacteria) infections continue to be reported in the
multistate outbreak linked to pet store puppies. As of October 23, a total of
67 people infected with _Campylobacter_ infections were reported from 15
states. Regardless of where they are from, puppies might carry _Campylobacter_
germs. CDC recommends people wash their hands with soap and water every time
they touch a dog or its food, or clean up after a dog.

![Thumbnail image of the cover for new document: Innovations to Stop
Infections](/ncezid/images/what-we-do/innovations.jpg)

**Innovations to stop emerging and zoonotic infections**

A new CDC publication, Innovations to Stop Emerging and Zoonotic Infections,
shines a light on some of CDC's most cutting-edge technologies. It features
stories about innovative technologies that have been vital in large outbreak
responses as well as in tracking down more commonly seen illnesses caused by
contaminated food or unclean water. Using plain language text and stunning
images, it translates the work of CDC's stellar scientists who have taken on
challenges ranging from antibiotic resistance to Zika prevention.

![Image of an aged map of the island nation of
Madagascar](/ncezid/images/what-we-do/map-of-madagascar.jpg)

**Plague outbreak in Madagascar**

CDC is closely monitoring an outbreak of plague in Madagascar and is providing
technical assistance at the request of World Health Organization (WHO). CDC
has sent personnel with expertise in infection prevention and control, vector
control, border health, epidemiology, and plague. Although plague occurs there
every year, the current outbreak is unusual because of reported person-to-
person transmission in urban areas. At this time, CDC does not recommend that
people avoid or postpone travel to Madagascar, but a level 2 travel alert has
been posted, encouraging travelers to the country to take steps to prevent
flea bites and avoid contact with sick or dead animals.

![image of several prescription bottles and spilled pills on a white
background](/ncezid/images/what-we-do/ar-pills.jpg)

**CDC awards $9 million to 25 investigators to combat antibiotic resistance**

On October 23, CDC announced $9 million in awards for 25 projects to combat
antibiotic resistance (AR) and improve patient safety. The results from this
investment will help CDC protect people by detecting reservoirs of resistant
germs, informing outbreak response, and preventing future infections. Focus
areas include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Discovering and evaluating new strategies that protect patients from resistance threats in healthcare settings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Investigating the human microbiome and pinpointing effective prevention strategies that protect people, their microbiomes, and the effectiveness of antibiotics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Examining the impact of antibiotic resistance in environmental settings, like surface water and soil, to determine potential downstream impacts on human health.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The awards were made through a broad agency announcement (BAA) through the AR Solutions Initiative. In fiscal years 2016 and 2017, the AR Solutions Initiative awarded more than $24 million to BAA awardees.

### Responding to recent hurricane emergencies

![Image of palm trees blowing in hurricane winds](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/hurricane-winds.jpg)

CDC staff have been supporting the federal response to hurricanes Harvey,
Irma, and Maria in many ways. Staff from CDC's National Center for Emerging
and Zoonotic Diseases are serving in the field and in Atlanta, providing
expertise in safe water and food, invasive fungal and bacterial infections,
and communication. Other staff have traveled to Texas to support vector
control efforts after Hurricane Harvey. NCEZID will continue to work with the
agency's Emergency Operations Center to support CDC's response.

### Engaging the public and healthcare providers about sepsis

![Get ahead of sepsis. Know the risks. Spot the signs. Act
fast.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/sepsis.jpg)

Sepsis is a devastating condition that affects at least 1.7 million people
each year in the US and causes nearly 270,000 deaths. _Get Ahead of Sepsis_, a
CDC national educational effort to protect Americans from the devastating
effects of sepsis, calls on healthcare professionals to educate patients,
prevent infections, suspect and identify sepsis early, and start sepsis
treatment fast. In addition, patients and their families are urged to prevent
infections, be alert to the symptoms of sepsis, and seek immediate medical
care if sepsis is suspected or for an infection that is not improving or is
getting worse. Read the newly released article, "Incidence and Trends of
Sepsis in US Hospitals Using Clinical vs Claims Data, 2009 - 2014External _,_
" in _JAMA_.

### CDC works with global partners to fight cholera in Cameroon

![Young boy drinking a cholera vaccine from a small
bottle](/ncezid/images/recent-work/boy-cholera-vaccine.jpg)

Over the past few decades, Cameroon has faced several outbreaks of cholera.
From 2011 to 2014 alone, the country reported 26,621 cases of cholera leading
to 1,031 deaths. CDC is working with Cameroon, the World Health Organization
and other partners to fight cholera and prevent another outbreak of the
waterborne disease in the country. CDC and partners are working to deliver
oral cholera vaccine to people in Cameroon's at-risk areas. Earlier this year,
a CDC staff member went to Cameroon for five weeks to help the country
distribute more than 278,000 doses of vaccine.

### A new One Health publication

![Small image of one health cover](/ncezid/images/recent-work/one-health-
cover.jpg)

More than half of all infections that people get are spread by animals. CDC's
One Health Office recognizes that the health of people is connected to the
health of animals and our shared environment. Find out what the One Health
Office has been up to recently by checking out their newest fact sheet. Learn
more about their work in the United States and around the world to protect the
health of people, animals, and the environment.

I am text block. Click edit button to change this text. Lorem ipsum dolor sit
amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut elit tellus, luctus nec ullamcorper
mattis, pulvinar dapibus leo.

### New Lyme disease study

![A tick on a leaf](/ncezid/images/recent-work/whats-new-ticks.jpg)

CDC and Colorado State University scientists have identified a way to
distinguish Lyme disease from a similar condition using an innovative
approach, according to a study published August 16 in _Science Translational
Medicine_ External _._ The findings are noteworthy because current laboratory
tests for early Lyme disease are not ideal. The researchers were able to
distinguish between early Lyme disease and southern tick-associated rash
illness using biomarkers that show us how the body reacts to these illnesses.
This could be important in helping to more accurately detect early Lyme
disease, which is crucial because the longer people wait for Lyme disease
treatment, the higher their risk for more severe symptoms. The research team
hopes the findings will lay the groundwork for other studies that could lead
to improved early testing for Lyme disease.

### Illnesses in Texas Linked to Raw Milk

![A glass of milk sitting in grass](/ncezid/images/recent-work/whats-new-raw-
milk.jpg)

CDC scientists confirmed a case in a pregnant woman whose only potential
exposure to this strain of bacteria (known as RB51) was through drinking raw
milk from a nearby farm. Other people nearby also have symptoms consistent
with RB51 infection. Milk from the farm also tested positive for RB51 and was
recalled. CDC and Texas health officials have been contacting more than 800
households that may have purchased raw milk at the dairy between June 1 and
early August. CDC and Texas are warning people about the need to see their
doctor for antibiotics to prevent long-term symptoms of brucellosis. RB51 is
used to vaccinate cattle against types of _Brucella_  that are more dangerous
to animals and to people. In rare circumstances, cows vaccinated with RB51 may
shed the bacteria in milk.

### $77M to states combat antibiotic resistance (AR)

![ARLAB network logo](/ncezid/images/recent-work/whats-new-arlab-logo.jpg)

In early August, through the Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for
Infectious Diseases (ELC) cooperative agreement, CDC made $77M in investments
nationwide for activities to combat AR. These funds help every state health
department fight local resistance in foodborne infections and infections in
healthcare facilities and communities. Supported by CDC's AR Solutions
Initiative, these investments include enhancements to the new AR Lab Network,
including

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Increasing testing nationwide for the fungal threat _Candida_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adding a new national lab to conduct molecular testing on all US TB isolates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Enhancing detection of resistant gonorrhea with whole genome sequencing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Testing for "nightmare bacteria" CRE and performing whole genome sequencing on food and waterborne bacteria in every public health lab

### _Salmonella_ outbreak linked to papayas

![Two papayas with one cut in half](/ncezid/images/recent-work/whats-new-
papaya.jpg)

CDC is investigating a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ infections linked
to Maradol papayas imported from Mexico. As of September 1, there have been
201 cases reported from 23 states; 65 ill people have been hospitalized, and
one person from New York City died. Among 196 ill people with available
information, 101 (66%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Whole genome sequencing has
been an important part of this investigation by showing the close genetic
relatedness between _Salmonella_ bacteria from ill people and those from
papayas and by helping to determine who is part of the outbreak. CDC and FDA
are advising consumers not to eat Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche
farm located in Mexico. These papayas are sold under different brand names.
The investigation is ongoing.

I am text block. Click edit button to change this text. Lorem ipsum dolor sit
amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut elit tellus, luctus nec ullamcorper
mattis, pulvinar dapibus leo.

### New data link outbreaks to fish

![Slices of seared tuna on a plate with vegetables in the
background](/ncezid/images/homepage/whats-new-jul.jpg)

Fish continue to be an important source of foodborne outbreaks, according to a
CDC study, "Fish-Associated Foodborne Disease Outbreaks: United States,
1998-2015External," published in early July in _Foodborne Pathogens and
Disease_. About 260,000 people in the United States get sick from contaminated
fish each year. Norovirus and _Salmonella_ caused the largest outbreaks, and
most outbreak-associated illnesses were caused by scombrotoxin, _Salmonella_ ,
and ciguatoxin. The types of fish most often linked to outbreaks were tuna
(37%), mahi-mahi (10%), and grouper (9%). Upstream control measures targeted
to the most common causes and controls during processing and preparation could
help reduce outbreaks caused by fish, according to the study.

### _Salmonella_ outbreaks linked to backyard poultry

![illustration%20of house and chicken coop](/ncezid/images/recent-work/house-
chicken-coop.jpg)

Since June 2017, CDC has been investigating outbreaks of _Salmonella_
infections linked to live poultry in backyard flocks. As of July 7, a total of
10 outbreaks involving 790 ill people in 48 states and Washington DC have been
reported to CDC. The current number of ill people is higher than the 493
reported at this time last year, a reminder that _Salmonella_ infections from
backyard flocks continue to be a public health problem. Handwashing and other
safe practices can help prevent illness.

### Zika Update

![visual%20of a globe with words - Zika Virus Information about the virus &
current updates](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-update-july.jpg)

Zika response activities in CDC's Emergency Operations Center continue at a
busy pace. Among recent highlights are four Zika-related MMWR articles
coauthored by CDC scientists and released during June-July. These include
reports on Zika prevention measures in Puerto Rico, pregnancy outcomes after
maternal Zika virus infection in US territories, evaluation of placental and
fetal tissue specimens for Zika virus infection, and updated CDC Zika testing
guidance for pregnant women exposed to Zika. The four articles (there now have
been 61 Zika MMWR reports since the response began in January 2016) offer a
snapshot of the outstanding scientific contributions the response is making to
further our understanding of this complex emerging infection.

### Expanding antibiotic stewardship into rural areas

![](/ncezid/images/recent-work/cover-rural-hospitals.jpg)

On July 14, CDC, in partnership with The Pew Charitable Trusts, the American
Hospital Association, and the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy, released
a new resource, Implementation of Antibiotic Stewardship Core Elements at
Small and Critical Access Hospitals, on July 14. This guide adapts the CDC
Core Elements of Hospital Antibiotic Stewardship Programs into practical ways
that small hospitals, particularly critical access hospitals, can initiate and
expand antibiotic stewardship activities in rural areas. It prepares
facilities to address and overcome some of the challenges they face with
limited staffing and resources. Providers who practice in these unique
healthcare settings guided the development of this resource. CDC and its
partners met with representatives from some of these facilities to better
understand the challenges and get their input in developing materials that are
more applicable and realistic to implement.

I am text block. Click edit button to change this text. Lorem ipsum dolor sit
amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut elit tellus, luctus nec ullamcorper
mattis, pulvinar dapibus leo.

### Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo

![Small map image of ebola outbreaks in the democratic republic of congo.
](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ebola-map-congo.jpg)

CDC staff have deployed to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to support
the response to an outbreak of Ebola virus disease reported in the Likati
Health Zone in northern DRC. They are providing support to the DRC Ministry of
Public Health, the CDC country office, and other national and international
responders. The outbreak began on April 22, after a 39-year-old man from the
Nambwa Health area developed fever, vomiting, and bleeding, and then died in
transit to the hospital. Two people who helped transport him later developed
similar symptoms and died. As of May 30, the ministry reports 17 cases (12
suspected, 3 probable, 2 confirmed); 4 persons have died. The investigation is
ongoing, and CDC will continue to assist in the response. VSPB health
communications staff are engaging in regular discussions with CDC colleagues
and international partners and providing educational and prevention materials
about Ebola.

### Zika update

![illustration of man spraying yard plants with
pesticide](/ncezid/images/recent-work/mosquito-control.jpg)

As we move toward summer, CDC has ramped up activities to help prepare states
for the 2017 mosquito season and potential cases of Zika. May saw an uptick in
our efforts to get information out to state and local health departments to
ensure they have the resources and information they need to respond to Zika
this year. On May 5, we released an updated version of the CDC Zika Interim
Response Plan based on lessons learned in 2016 and feedback from our state and
local partners.

Zika is still a major public health concern, and CDC will continue working
with the goal of protecting pregnancies from harm caused by infections with
this virus.

### 2018 Yellow Book now available

![Cropped image of the CDC Yellow book 2018 cover ](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/yellow-book-18.jpg)

The 2018 edition of the CDC Health Information for International Travel
(commonly called the Yellow Book) is now available in print. It provides the
US government's most current health guidelines and information for
international travel, including pre-travel vaccine recommendations,
destination-specific health advice, and easy-to-reference maps, tables, and
charts.

The Yellow Book is published every 2 years as a reference for health
professionals providing care to international travelers and is a useful
resource for anyone interested in staying healthy abroad.

### There's an app for that!

CDC has been testing a new mobile phone app designed by the nonprofit Mission
Rabies that helps track canine rabies vaccination campaigns in near-real time.

![image of cell phone with a sample screenshot from the mobile
app](/ncezid/images/recent-work/rabies-app.png)



CDC's rabies experts have been working to refine the app and to plan for the
largest dog rabies vaccination campaign in Haiti. So far, the app has been
helpful in tracking how the campaign is progressing. During the next phase
starting May 21, the CDC rabies team will be using it to help direct where the
vaccination teams should go to reach dogs that need vaccination. As of May 5,
41,500 dogs had been vaccinated, with an ultimate goal to have 800,000 dogs
vaccinated nationwide by the end of July, which would be a 70% nationwide
vaccination rate. If sustained for 5 years, this level is anticipated to
disrupt rabies transmission. Rabies causes about 130 deaths in people annually
in Haiti.

### Updated guidelines for responding to pandemic flu

![Mother looking at a thermometer in one hand, other hand resting on sick
child](/ncezid/images/recent-work/whats-new-flu.jpg)





On April 21, HHS/CDC released a set of updated pre-pandemic planning
guidelines entitled _Community Mitigation Guidelines to Prevent Pandemic
Influenza - United States, 2017_. These guidelines replace the _2007_ _Interim
Pre-pandemic Planning Guidance: Community Strategy for Pandemic Influenza
Mitigation in the United States - Early, Targeted, Layered Use of
Nonpharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs)_. The 2017 updated guidelines summarize
key lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response, describe new or
updated pandemic assessment and planning tools, and incorporate the latest
scientific findings on the use of NPIs. In addition, six plain-language, pre-
pandemic NPI planning guides are available online for different audiences and
community settings. The supplemental guides can help states and localities
operationalize the 2017 guidelines and assist them with pre-pandemic flu
planning and decision-making. To access the updated guidelines, planning
guides, and additional NPI communication, education, and training materials,
please visit www.cdc.gov/npi.

### _New challenges in monitoring and preventing foodborne disease_

![Photo of female scientist with colored petri dishes and testing
equipment](/ncezid/images/recent-work/monitoring-foodborne-disease.jpg)

Recent changes in the use of tests that diagnose foodborne illness pose
challenges to monitoring illnesses and progress toward preventing foodborne
disease, according to a report published April 20 in CDC's _Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report_. The MMWR article includes the most recent data from
CDC's Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network, or FoodNet, which
collects data on 15% of the US population. It summarizes preliminary 2016 data
on nine germs spread commonly through food. In 2016, FoodNet reported 24,029
infections, 5,512 hospitalizations, and 98 deaths related to foodborne
illness. _Campylobacter_ and _Salmonella_ caused the most reported bacterial
foodborne illnesses in 2016.

### New test to detect smallpox

![lab man in orange biohazard suit](/ncezid/images/recent-work/small-pox-
test.jpg)

In February, CDC's Poxvirus and Rabies Branch received US Food and Drug
Administration clearance for a diagnostic test to detect variola virus, the
agent that causes smallpox. The new Variola Virus Real-time PCR Assay was
designed to increase sensitivity and specificity and will replace the variola
virus-specific test previously deployed to Laboratory Response Network (LRN)
laboratories. The assay reagents and verification panels have been sent to
qualified laboratories through the LRN. The deployment of the variola test
enhances US government preparedness efforts to quickly detect and respond to a
biological attack.

### Dentists prescribe 10% of all antibiotic prescriptions in outpatient
settings

![Small image of infographic: Seven ways dentists can act against antibiotic
resistance](/ncezid/images/recent-work/seven-ways-dentists-help-ar.jpg)Cdc-pdf

Recent CDC studyExternal published in the _Journal of the American Dental
Association_ reported information about antibiotic prescribing among general
dentists in the United States. The study found that although dentists usually
prescribe within recommended guidelines, they sometimes prescribe antibiotics
not indicated for dental conditions, such as fluoroquinolones and others used
to treat urinary tract infections.

CDC's Safe Healthcare Blog published Dr. Marie Fluent's tips for supporting
responsible antibiotic prescribing practices in dentistry. She is a dentist
and educational consultant at the Organization for Safety, Asepsis, and
Prevention.

### Multistate outbreak linked to soy nut butter

![soy nut butter and jelly sandwich](/ncezid/images/recent-work/soy-nut-
butter.jpg)

CDC, FDA, and several states are investigating a multistate outbreak of 29
Shiga toxin-producing _E. coli_ (STEC) O157:H7 infections reported from 12
states. Most of the sick people are children. The investigation has identified
I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter as the likely source of this outbreak. The
SoyNut Butter Company recalled this product, as well as I.M. Healthy granola
and Dixie Diner's Club brand Carb Not Beanit Butter. CDC recommends that
people not eat or serve these products. This investigation is ongoing.

### Zika Update

![cropped image of a world map with some countries in
purple](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-update-map-april.jpg)

Thirteen months into CDC's Zika response, CDC continues to focus its efforts
on reducing the risk of infections. CDC launched a series of eight 1-hour
webinars to help state and local jurisdictions prepare for the 2017 Zika
mosquito season. CDC also has updated its Zika travel guidance for pregnant
women. CDC recommends that pregnant women not travel to areas where Zika virus
has been newly introduced or reintroduced and mosquito-borne transmission is
ongoing; areas where the virus was present before 2015 and there is no
evidence transmission has stopped; and areas where the virus is likely to be
circulating but has not been documented. This recommendation comes with a new
World Map of Areas with Risk of Zika that allows users to search for location-
specific Zika information and travel recommendations, and an interactive "Know
Your Zika Risk" tool that offers tailored risk and prevention messages based
on information provided by travelers.

A new analysis of Zika cases in Florida's Miami-Dade County led CDC to alert
residents of Broward and Palm Beach counties of a small potential increased
risk of Zika virus transmission starting June 15, 2016. CDC recognized that
people who regularly move between Miami-Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach counties
may not realize they were traveling to an area with active mosquito-borne Zika
virus transmission, and this movement between counties may pose a small but
increased risk for Zika transmission. This increased risk is particularly
relevant for Zika transmission via semen, because of evidence regarding the
persistence of Zika virus in this reproductive tissue. Although blood
donations in the United States are tested for Zika, there are no tests for
tissue donors, including semen donors. CDC encourages women and their
partners, in consultation with their healthcare providers, to consider this
potential risk when trying to conceive.

### Vaccine study to prevent monkeypox in DRC

![doctor with gloved hands giving a vaccine to someone's
arm](/ncezid/images/recent-work/vaccine-study-monkeypox.jpg)

A CDC-sponsored study to evaluate the effectiveness of Imvamune, a third-
generation vaccine against smallpox, has begun. The study focuses on
preventing infections from monkeypox virus, which is related to smallpox
virus, in at-risk health care workers and laboratorians in Democratic Republic
of Congo (DRC). The study has so far enrolled 24 participants in Kinshasa. In
June, the second phase of the study will begin in Tshuapa, an area with a high
risk of monkeypox infections among community members, placing healthcare
workers at risk for infection. After smallpox eradication in 1980, countries
around the world stopped regular vaccinations against the disease. Waning
immunity to smallpox is thought to have contributed to the increased reports
of monkeypox in Central and West Africa.

### Investigating group A strep in Alaska

![Group of young scientists bundled in winter geer but smiling at the camera
while snow falls](/ncezid/images/recent-work/strep-investigation-alaska.jpg)

Teams from CDC's Arctic Investigations Program partnered with state and local
health officials in Anchorage, AK, to investigate and treat outbreaks of group
A Streptococcus (group A strep) infection occurring in the homeless population
there. CDC epidemiologists traveled to Anchorage in February to assist the
Alaska Department of Health and Social Services with identification of risk
factors for group A strep in the city's homeless population. The CDC team
helped implement and evaluate mass antibiotic treatment and infection control
measures. An increase in the number of infections began in 2016 and has
continued through the beginning of this year.

### Outbreaks associated with imported foods

![image of various seafood on ice](/ncezid/images/recent-work/imported-
food.jpg)

A small but increasing percentage of foodborne outbreaks in the United States
is associated with imported food, according to an article authored by CDC
scientists and published in a recent journal _Emerging Infectious Disease_ s.
From 1996 to 2000, imported food was linked to 1% of foodborne outbreaks, or
about 3 outbreaks each year. From 2009 to 2014, imported food was linked to 5%
of foodborne outbreaks, or about 18 outbreaks each year. Approximately 19% of
food consumed in the United States is imported, including ≈97% of fish and
shellfish, ≈50% of fresh fruits, and ≈20% of fresh vegetables. Knowing what
imported foods are most often linked to outbreaks can help focus efforts to
improve food safety and prevent future illnesses.

### Learn about _Salmonella_ and live poultry

![Cropped image of infographic about Healthy Families and
Flocks](/ncezid/images/recent-work/healthy-families-flocks.jpg)

It's spring, which means that many people are buying chicks and ducklings for
backyard flocks. Yet backyard flocks can make their owners sick if proper
precautions aren't followed, as shown by the record number of _Salmonella_
infections linked to backyard flocks in 2016. Before the spring selling season
started, CDC distributed educational materialsCdc-pdf on preventing live-
poultry-associated _Salmonella_ illnesses to agricultural retail stores,
hatcheries, and state agriculture department and health department
collaborators.

### CDC assists with cholera vaccination campaign

![image of an African child receiving a vaccination](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/cholera-vaccination.jpg)

CDC is working with Cameroon's ministry of health, the World Health
Organization, and other partners on a cholera vaccination campaign targeting
an estimated 130,000 people who live in Mogode District, bordering Nigeria in
the Far North Region. This district has had multiple cholera outbreaks and has
been the source of nationwide cholera epidemics in the past. The vaccine
campaign is scheduled to take place in March and April, before the onset of
the rainy season. CDC also assists Cameroon with other activities related to
cholera preparedness, detection, and response through the Global Health
Security Agenda.

### Ebola virus detected in Ebola survivor 565 days after recovery

![Image of yellow virus on purple background](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/ebola-virus-pic.jpg)

A team of CDC researchers recently published a study detailing the persistence
of Ebola virus in the semen of a male survivor of Ebola virus disease. On
August 27, 2014, Ebola virus was detected in the semen of a 48-year-old Ebola
survivor in Liberia 565 days after his recovery from the Ebola. The patient
also had a pre-existing HIV infection, which he was managing with treatment.
While being treated for Ebola he continued his antiretroviral therapy regimen
and was discharged from the Ebola treatment unit after his test came back
negative for active Ebola virus infection. CDC researchers believe that the
patient's favorable response to the Ebola treatment despite being HIV positive
could be linked to the patient's compliance with his antiretroviral therapy
regimen and adequate CD4 count. This emphasizes the importance of patients'
continuing their HIV treatment during an outbreak. The case highlights the
need to continue researching the role that co-infections such as HIV and other
causes of immunosuppression might play in the persistence of Ebola virus in
male survivors of Ebola.

### Frozen Shredded Coconut Linked to Outbreak

![Closeup of shredded coconut](/ncezid/images/recent-work/coconut.jpg)

CDC and state and federal partners are investigating a **multistate outbreak
of _Salmonella  _infections** linked to frozen shredded coconut. On January 3,
2018, Evershing International Trading Company recalledExternal all 16 oz. bags
of Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut.  
CDC recommends retailers not sell, restaurants not serve, and consumers not
eat recalled product.

Page last reviewed: February 9, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home NCEZID

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Division and Office Overviewsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DFWED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DGMQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHCPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHQP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DPEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DSR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DVBD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OAMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organizational Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Director Profile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strategic Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Our Name
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CLIA Certificates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Connect with Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs Newplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newsroom 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recent Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Border Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Deadly Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Foodborne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare-Associated Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Public Health Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State, Local, and Tribal Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Technological Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne and Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cross-cutting Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Health at Home & Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID Around The World
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tribal Health in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Innovationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Biothreats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hantavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Whole Genome Sequencing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Future Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Moving the needle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Breaking the mold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Collaborating to make a difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Combating infections in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Confronting infections across the globe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Observing significant milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting Patients from Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting People from Domestic Health Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fighting Global Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Safeguarding Travelers & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Building Lab and Epi Capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Our Year in Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Vector-borne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Global & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Domestic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Global)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Support to States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Lab Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2014 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2013 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2011-2012 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Partnersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and Hilton Foundation partner to improve global water, sanitation, and hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Center of Excellence Provides Much-Needed Assistance After Hurricane Harvey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New rapid rabies test could revolutionize testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hatcheries work with CDC to prevent _Salmonella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthier and safer in the water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The power of innovation to advance public health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent illnesses between people and pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID partners on cryptococcal screening in South Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and BD Partner to Fight Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World leaders partner to combat antibiotic resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Airline helps CDC save lives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Turning human waste into affordable fuel in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Promoting Antibiotic Stewardship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 100 Partners Work to Promote Safe Injection Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting People in Haiti from Deadly Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strengthening Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Workforce in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Making Plague a Disease of the Past in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing New Tools To Fight Monkeypox Outbreaks in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ending Cholera Globally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improving Diagnoses of Zika and Other Vector-Borne Diseases in Indonesia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Newborns in India from Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training Infection Prevention and Control Specialists in Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Responds to a Dangerous Fungus Here and Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance in India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epidemiology Training Helps Cholera Response in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Response in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HAIs in the Country of Georgia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Research in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CHAMPS Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Rabies Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zoonotic Diseases in Ethiopia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Reservoir Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animations and Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive a monthly update highlighting our recent work to prevent infectious
disease, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

