Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000709.htm    
                                Description: You have seen your doctor for MÃ©niÃ¨re disease. During MÃ©niÃ¨re attacks, you may have vertigo, or the feeling that you are spinning. You may also have hearing loss (most often in one ear) and ringing or    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

MÃ©niÃ¨re disease - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000709.htm

# MÃ©niÃ¨re disease - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have seen your doctor for MÃ©niÃ¨re disease. During MÃ©niÃ¨re attacks, you
may have vertigo, or the feeling that you are spinning. You may also have
hearing loss (most often in one ear) and ringing or roaring in the affected
ear, called tinnitus. You may also have pressure or fullness in the ears.

During attacks, some people find bed rest helps relieve vertigo symptoms. Your
health care provider may prescribe medicines like diuretics (water pills) or
antihistamines to help. Surgery may be used in some cases with persistent
symptoms, although this has risks and is rarely recommended.

There is no cure for MÃ©niÃ¨re disease. However, making some lifestyle changes
can help prevent or reduce attacks.

## Diet

Eating a low-salt (sodium) diet helps reduce the fluid pressure in your inner
ear. This can help control symptoms of MÃ©niÃ¨re disease. Your provider may
recommend cutting back to 1,500 mg to 2,000 mg of sodium per day. This is
about Â¾ teaspoon (4 grams) of salt.

Start by taking the salt shaker off your table, and do not add any extra salt
to foods. You get plenty from the food you eat.

These tips can help you cut the extra salt from your diet.

When shopping, look for healthy choices that are naturally low in salt,
including:

      * Fresh or frozen vegetables and fruits.
      * Fresh or frozen beef, chicken, turkey, and fish. Note that salt is often added to whole turkeys, so be sure to read the label.

Learn to read labels.

      * Check all labels to see how much salt is in each serving of your food. A product with less than 100 mg of salt per serving is good.
      * Ingredients are listed in order of the amount the food contains. Avoid foods that list salt near the top of the list of ingredients.
      * Look for these words: low-sodium, sodium-free, no salt added, sodium-reduced, or unsalted.

Foods to avoid include:

      * Most canned foods, unless the label says low or no sodium. Canned foods often contain salt to preserve the color of the food and keep it looking fresh.
      * Processed foods, such as cured or smoked meats, bacon, hot dogs, sausage, bologna, ham, and salami.
      * Packaged foods such as macaroni and cheese and rice mixes.
      * Anchovies, olives, pickles, and sauerkraut.
      * Soy and Worcestershire sauces.
      * Tomato and other vegetable juices.
      * Most cheeses.
      * Many bottled salad dressings and salad dressing mixes.
      * Most snack foods, such as chips or crackers.

When you cook and eat at home:

      * Replace salt with other seasonings. Pepper, garlic, herbs, and lemon are good choices.
      * Avoid packaged spice blends. They often contain salt.
      * Use garlic and onion powder, not garlic and onion salt.
      * DO NOT eat foods containing monosodium glutamate (MSG).
      * Replace your salt shaker with a salt-free seasoning mix.
      * Use oil and vinegar on salads. Add fresh or dried herbs.
      * Eat fresh fruit or sorbet for dessert.

When you go out to eat:

      * Stick to steamed, grilled, baked, boiled, and broiled foods with no added salt, sauces, or cheese.
      * If you think the restaurant might use MSG, ask them not to add it to your order.

Try to eat the same amount of food and drink the same amount of fluid at about
the same time every day. This can help reduce changes in the fluid balance in
your ear.

## Other Lifestyle Changes

Making the following changes may also help:

      * Some over-the-counter medicines, such as antacids and laxatives, have a lot of salt in them. If you need these medicines, ask your provider or pharmacist what brands contain little or no salt.
      * Home water softeners add salt to water. If you have one, limit how much tap water you drink. Drink bottled water instead.
      * Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which may make symptoms worse.
      * If you smoke, quit. Quitting may help reduce symptoms.
      * Some people find that managing allergy symptoms and avoiding allergy triggers helps decrease Meniere disease symptoms.
      * Get plenty of sleep and take steps to reduce stress. 

## Medicines

For some people, diet alone will not be enough. If needed, your provider may
also give you water pills (diuretics) to help reduce the fluid in your body
and fluid pressure in your inner ear. You should have regular follow-up exams
and lab work as suggested by your provider. Antihistamines may also be
prescribed. These medicines may make you sleepy, so you should first take them
when you do not have to drive or be alert for important tasks.

## Surgery

If surgery is recommended for your condition, be sure to talk with your
surgeon about any specific restrictions you may have after surgery.

## When to Call your Doctor

Call your provider if you have symptoms of MÃ©niÃ¨re disease, or if symptoms
get worse. These include hearing loss, ringing in the ears, pressure or
fullness in the ears, or dizziness.

## Alternative Names

Hydrops - self-care; Endolymphatic hydrops - self-care; Dizziness - MÃ©niÃ¨re
self-care; Vertigo - MÃ©niÃ¨re self-care; Loss of balance - MÃ©niÃ¨re self-
care

## References

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund LJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

Fife TD. Meniereâs disease. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:458-462.

Kerber KA, Baloh RW. Neuro-otology: diagnosis and management of neuro-
otological disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL,
eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 46

## Review Date 2/26/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Meniere's Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

