Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003930.htm    
                                Description: The Tensilon test is a method to help diagnose myasthenia gravis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tensilon test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003930.htm

# Tensilon test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Tensilon test is a method to help diagnose myasthenia gravis.

## How the Test is Performed

A medicine called Tensilon (also called edrophonium) or a dummy medicine
(inactive placebo) is given during this test. The health care provider gives
the medicine through one of your veins (intravenously, through an IV). You may
also be given a medicine called atropine before receiving Tensilon so that you
do not know you are getting the medicine.

You will be asked to perform some muscle movements over and over again, such
as crossing and uncrossing your legs or getting up from a sitting position in
a chair. The provider will check whether the Tensilon improves your muscle
strength. If you have weakness of the eye or face muscles, the effect of the
Tensilon on this will also be monitored.

The test may be repeated and you may have other Tensilon tests to help tell
the difference between myasthenia gravis and other conditions.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is usually necessary. Follow your provider's
instructions about how to prepare.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp prick as the IV needle is inserted. The drug may cause a
feeling of a churning of the stomach or a slight feeling of increased heart
rate, especially if atropine is not given first.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test helps:

      * Diagnose myasthenia gravis
      * Tell the difference between myasthenia gravis and other similar brain and nervous system conditions
      * Monitor treatment with oral anticholinesterase drugs 

The test may also be done for conditions such as Lambert-Eaton syndrome. This
is a disorder in which faulty communication between nerves and muscles leads
to muscle weakness.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In many people with myasthenia gravis, the muscle weakness will improve right
after receiving Tensilon. The improvement lasts only a few minutes. For some
types of myasthenia, Tensilon may make the weakness worse.

When the disease gets worse enough to need treatment (myasthenic crisis),
there is a brief improvement in muscle strength.

When there is an overdose of anticholinesterase (cholinergic crisis), Tensilon
will make the person even weaker.

## Risks

The medicine used during the test may cause side effects, including fainting
or breathing failure. This is why the test is done by a provider in a medical
setting.

## Alternative Names

Myasthenia gravis - tensilon test

## Images

      * ![Muscle fatigue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8959t.jpg)Muscle fatigue

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Tensilon test - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1057-1058.

Sanders DB, Guptill JT. Disorders of neuromuscular transmission. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Myasthenia
Gravis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MyastheniaGravis_thumb.jpg)Myasthenia
Gravis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

