Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003576.htm    
                                Description: Acetylcholine receptor antibody is a protein found in the blood of many people with myasthenia gravis. The antibody affects a chemical that sends signals from nerves to muscles and between nerves in the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acetylcholine receptor antibody

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003576.htm

# Acetylcholine receptor antibody

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acetylcholine receptor antibody is a protein found in the blood of many people
with myasthenia gravis. The antibody affects a chemical that sends signals
from nerves to muscles and between nerves in the brain.

This article discusses the blood test for acetylcholine receptor antibody.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time you do not need to take special steps before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to help diagnose myasthenia gravis.

## Normal Results

Normally, there is no acetylcholine receptor antibody (or less than 0.05
nmol/L) in the bloodstream.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means acetylcholine receptor antibody has been found in
your blood. It confirms the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis in people who have
symptoms. Nearly one half of people with myasthenia gravis that is limited to
their eye muscles (ocular myasthenia gravis) have this antibody in their
blood.

However, the lack of this antibody does not rule out myasthenia gravis. About
1 in 5 people with myasthenia gravis do not have signs of this antibody in
their blood. Your provider may also consider testing you for the muscle
specific kinase (MuSK) antibody.

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Evoli A, Vincent A. Disorders of neuromuscular transmission. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 394.

Patterson ER, Winters JL. Hemapheresis. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Myasthenia
Gravis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MyastheniaGravis_thumb.jpg)Myasthenia
Gravis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

