Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000712.htm    
                                Description: Myasthenia gravis is a neuromuscular disorder. Neuromuscular disorders involve the muscles and the nerves that control them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myasthenia gravis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000712.htm

# Myasthenia gravis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myasthenia gravis is a neuromuscular disorder. Neuromuscular disorders involve
the muscles and the nerves that control them.

## Causes

Myasthenia gravis is believed to be a type of autoimmune disorder. An
autoimmune disorder occurs when the immune system mistakenly attacks healthy
tissue. Antibodies are proteins made by the body's immune system when it
detects harmful substances. Antibodies may be produced when the immune system
mistakenly considers healthy tissue to be a harmful substance, such as in the
case of myasthenia gravis. In people with myasthenia gravis, the body produces
antibodies that block the muscle cells from receiving messages
(neurotransmitters) from the nerve cells.

In some cases, myasthenia gravis is linked to tumors of the thymus (an organ
of the immune system).

Myasthenia gravis can affect people at any age. It is most common in young
women and older men.

## Symptoms

Myasthenia gravis causes weakness of the voluntary muscles. These are muscles
that you can control. Autonomic muscles of the heart and digestive tract are
usually not affected. The muscle weakness of myasthenia gravis worsens with
activity and improves with rest.

This muscle weakness can lead to a variety of symptoms, including:

      * Breathing difficulty because of weakness of the chest wall muscles
      * Chewing or swallowing difficulty, causing frequent gagging, choking, or drooling
      * Difficulty climbing stairs, lifting objects, or rising from a seated position
      * Difficulty talking
      * Drooping head and eyelids
      * Facial paralysis or weakness of the facial muscles
      * Fatigue
      * Hoarseness or changing voice
      * Double vision
      * Difficulty maintaining steady gaze 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This includes a
detailed nervous system (neurological) examination. This may show:

      * Muscle weakness, with eye muscles usually affected first
      * Normal reflexes and feeling (sensation) 

Tests that may be done include:

      * Acetylcholine receptor antibodies associated with this disease
      * CT or MRI scan of the chest to look for a tumor
      * Nerve conduction studies to test how fast electrical signals move through a nerve
      * Electromyography (EMG) to test the health of the muscles and the nerves that control the muscles
      * Pulmonary function tests to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning
      * Edrophonium test to see if this medicine reverses the symptoms for a short time 

## Treatment

There is no known cure for myasthenia gravis. Treatment may allow you to have
periods without any symptoms (remission).

Lifestyle changes can often help you continue your daily activities. The
following may be recommended:

      * Resting throughout the day
      * Using an eye patch if double vision is bothersome
      * Avoiding stress and heat exposure, which can make symptoms worse 

Medicines that may be prescribed include:

      * Neostigmine or pyridostigmine to improve communication between the nerves and muscles
      * Prednisone and other drugs (such as azathioprine, cyclosporine, or mycophenolate mofetil) to suppress the immune system response if you have severe symptoms and other medicines have not worked well. 

Crisis situations are attacks of weakness of the breathing muscles. These
attacks can occur without warning when either too much or too little medicine
is taken. These attacks usually last no longer than a few weeks. You may need
to be admitted to the hospital, where you may need breathing assistance with a
ventilator.

A procedure called plasmapheresis may also be used to help end the crisis.
This procedure involves removing the clear part of the blood (plasma), which
contains the antibodies. This is replaced with donated plasma that is free of
antibodies, or with other fluids. Plasmapheresis may also help reduce symptoms
for 4 to 6 weeks and is often used before surgery.

A medicine called intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) may also be used

Surgery to remove the thymus (thymectomy) may result in permanent remission or
less need for medicines, especially when there is a tumor present.

If you have eye problems, your doctor may suggest lens prisms to improve
vision. Surgery may also be recommended to treat your eye muscles.

Physical therapy can help maintain your muscle strength. This is especially
important for the muscles that support breathing.

Some medicines can worsen symptoms and should be avoided. Before taking any
medicine, ask your doctor whether it is OK for you to take it.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining aÂ myasthenia gravis support
group. Sharing with others who have common experiences and problems can help
you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is no cure, but long-term remission is possible. You may have to
restrict some daily activities. People who have only eye symptoms (ocular
myasthenia gravis), may develop generalized myasthenia over time.

A woman with myasthenia gravis can get pregnant, but careful prenatal care is
important. The baby may be weak and require medicines for a few weeks after
birth, but usually will not develop the disorder.

## Possible Complications

The condition may cause life-threatening breathing problems. This is called a
myasthenic crisis.

People with myasthenia gravis are at higher risk for other autoimmune
disorders, such as thyrotoxicosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus
erythematosus (lupus).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of myasthenia gravis.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have breathing difficulty or swallowing problems.

## Alternative Names

Neuromuscular disorder - myasthenia gravis

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
      * ![Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1111t.jpg)Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid
      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Chang CWJ. Myasthenia gravis and Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome. In: Parrillo JE,
Dellinger RP, eds. _Critical Care Medicine: Principles of Diagnosis and
Management in the Adult_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

Sanders DB, Guptill JT. Disorders of neuromuscular transmission. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 109.

Sanders DB, Wolfe GI, Benatar M, et al. International consensus guidance for
management of myasthenia gravis: executive summary. _Neurology_.
2016;87(4):419-425. PMID: 27358333 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27358333.

## Review Date 5/21/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Myasthenia
Gravis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MyastheniaGravis_thumb.jpg)Myasthenia
Gravis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

