Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007687.htm    
                                Description: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental disorder in which a child is often worried or anxious about many things and finds it hard to control this anxiety.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Generalized anxiety disorder in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007687.htm

# Generalized anxiety disorder in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental disorder in which a child is
often worried or anxious about many things and finds it hard to control this
anxiety.

## Causes

The cause of GAD is unknown. Genes may play a role. Children with family
members who have an anxiety disorder also may be more likely to have one.
Stress may be a factor in developing GAD.

Things in a child's life that can cause stress and anxiety include:

      * Loss, such as death of a loved one or parents' divorce
      * Big life changes, such as moving to a new town
      * A history of abuse
      * Living with family with members who are fearful, anxious, or violent

GAD is a common condition, affecting about 2% to 6% of children. GAD usually
does not occur until puberty. It is more often seen in girls than in boys.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is frequent worry or tension for at least 6 months, even with
little or no clear cause. Worries seem to float from one problem to another.
Children with anxiety commonly focus their worries on:

      *  **Doing well at school and sports.** They may have the feeling that they need to perform perfectly or otherwise feel they are not doing well.
      *  **The safety of themselves or their family.** They may feel intense fear of natural calamities such as earthquakes, tornados, or home break-ins.
      *  **Illness in themselves or their family.** They may worry excessively over minor illnesses they have or be fearful of developing new illnesses. 

Even when the child is aware that worries or fears are excessive, a child with
GAD still has difficulty controlling them. The child often needs reassurance.

Other symptoms of GAD include:

      * Problems concentrating, or the mind going blank
      * Fatigue
      * Irritability
      * Problems falling or staying asleep, or sleep that is restless and unsatisfying
      * Restlessness when awake
      * Not eating enough or overeating
      * Outbursts of anger
      * A pattern of being disobedient, hostile, and defiant 

Expecting the worst, even when there is no apparent reason for concern.

Your child may also have other physical symptoms such as:

      * Muscle tension
      * Upset stomach
      * Sweating
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Headaches 

Anxiety symptoms can affect a child's daily life. They can make it hard for
the child to sleep, eat, and perform well in school.

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will ask about your child's symptoms. GAD is
diagnosed based on your and your child's answers to these questions.

You and your child will also be asked about her mental and physical health,
problems at school, or behavior with friends and family. A physical exam or
lab tests may be done to rule out other conditions that can cause similar
symptoms.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help your child feel better and function well in
daily life. In less severe cases, talk therapy or medicine alone can be
helpful. In more severe cases, a combination of these may work best.

TALK THERAPY

Many types of talk therapy may be helpful for GAD. One common and effective
type of talk therapy is cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT can help your
child understand the relationship between his thoughts, behaviors, and
symptoms. CBT often involves a set number of visits. During CBT, your child
can learn how to:

      * Understand and gain control of distorted views of stressors, such as life events or other people's behavior
      * Recognize and replace panic-causing thoughts to help him feel more in control
      * Manage stress and relax when symptoms occur
      * Avoid thinking that minor problems will develop into terrible ones 

MEDICINES

Sometimes, medicines are used to help control anxiety in children. Commonly
prescribed medicines for GAD include antidepressants and sedatives. These may
be used short-term or long-term. Talk with the provider to learn about your
child's medicine, including possible side effects and interactions. Be sure
your child takes any medicine as prescribed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a child does depends on how severe the condition is. In some cases,
GAD is long-term and is difficult to treat. Most children, though, get better
with medicine, talk therapy, or both.

## Possible Complications

Having an anxiety disorder can put a child at risk for depression and
substance abuse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if your child frequently worries or feels anxious,
and it interferes with her daily activities.

## Alternative Names

GAD - children; Anxiety disorder - children

## Images

      * ![Support group counselors](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9227t.jpg)Support group counselors

## References

Bostic JQ, Prince JB, Buxton DC. Child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.
In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 69.

Calkins AW, Bui E, Taylor CT, Pollack MH, LeBeau RT, Simon NM. Anxiety
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Rosenberg DR, Chiriboga JA. Anxiety disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Anxiety _Read
more_

![Child Mental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildMentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Mental Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

