Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000588.htm    
                                Description: One in four children experiences a traumatic event by the time they are 18 years old. Traumatic events can be life threatening and are bigger than what your child should ever have to experience.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traumatic events and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000588.htm

# Traumatic events and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

One in four children experiences a traumatic event by the time they are 18
years old. Traumatic events can be life threatening and are bigger than what
your child should ever have to experience.

Learn what to watch for in your child and how to take care of your child after
a traumatic event. Get professional help if your child is not recovering.

## Kinds of Traumatic Events

Your child could experience a one-time traumatic event or a repeated trauma
that happens over and over again.

Examples of one-time traumatic events are:

      * Natural disasters, such as a tornado, hurricane, fire, or flood
      * Sexual assault
      * Physical assault
      * Witness shooting or stabbing of a person
      * Sudden death of a parent or trusted caregiver
      * Hospitalization

Examples of traumatic events that your child experiences over and over are:

      * Physical or emotional abuse
      * Sexual abuse
      * Gang violence
      * War
      * Terrorist events

## Know the Signs of Traumatic Stress

Your child may be having emotional reactions and feels:

      * Nervous.
      * Worried about safety.
      * Agitated.
      * Withdrawn.
      * Sad.
      * Scared of sleeping alone at night.
      * Temper tantrums.
      * Dissociated, which is an extreme and common reaction to a traumatic event. Your child copes with the trauma by withdrawing from the world. They feel detached and see things happening around them as if it is unreal. 

Your child may also be having physical problems like:

      * Stomachaches
      * Headaches
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Trouble sleeping and nightmares 

Your child may also be reliving the event:

      * Seeing images
      * Remembering every detail of what happened and what they did
      * Have the need to tell the story over and over again 

## Know the Signs of Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)

One half of the children who survive traumatic events will show signs of PTSD.
Every child's symptoms are different. In general, your child may have:

      * Intense fear
      * Feelings of helplessness
      * Feelings of being agitated and disorganized
      * Trouble sleeping
      * Trouble focusing
      * Loss of appetite
      * Changes in their interactions with others, including more aggressive or more withdrawn 

Your child may also go back to behaviors they had outgrown:

      * Bedwetting
      * Clinging
      * Sucking their thumb
      * Emotionally-numb, anxious, or depressed
      * Separation anxiety 

## Your Child Needs Your Support

Let your child know that they are safe and that you are in control.

      * Know that your child is taking cues from you on how to react to the traumatic event. It is OK for you to be sad or hurt.
      * But your child needs to know that you are in control and are protecting them. 

Let your child know that you are there for them.

      * Return to a daily routine as soon as you can. Create a schedule for eating, sleeping, school, and playing. Daily routines help kids know what to expect and make them feel safe.
      * Talk to your child. Let them know what you are doing to keep them safe. Answer their questions in a way they can understand.
      * Stay close to your child. Let them sit near you or hold your hand.
      * Accept and work with your child on regressed behavior.

Monitor information that your child is getting about an event. Turn off the TV
news and limit your conversations about events in front of young children.

## Get Your Child Help

There is no one way that children recover after traumatic events. Expect that
your child should go back to their usual activities over time.

If your child is still having trouble recovering after one month, get
professional help. Your child will learn how to:

      * Talk about what happened. They will tell their stories with words, pictures, or play. This helps them see that the reaction to the trauma is normal.
      * Develop coping strategies to help with fear and anxiety.

Let teachers know about traumatic events in your child's life. Keep open
communication about changes in your child's behavior.

## Alternative Names

Stress - traumatic events in children

## References

Augustyn MC, Zuckerman BS. Impact of violence on children. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

Peinado J, Leiner M. Violence-associated injury among children. In: Fuhrman
BP, Zimmerman JJ, eds. _Fuhrman and Zimmerman's Pediatric Critical Care_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 123.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Child Mental Health
      * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

