Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001547.htm    
                                Description: Reactive attachment disorder is a problem in which a child is not able to easily form a normal or loving relationship with others. It is considered to be a result of not forming an attachment to any specific    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Reactive attachment disorder of infancy or early childhood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001547.htm

# Reactive attachment disorder of infancy or early childhood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Reactive attachment disorder is a problem in which a child is not able to
easily form a normal or loving relationship with others. It is considered to
be a result of not forming an attachment to any specific caregiver when very
young.

## Causes

Reactive attachment disorder is caused by abuse or neglect of an infant's
needs for:

      * Emotional bonds with a primary or secondary caretaker
      * Food
      * Physical safety
      * Touching

An infant or child may be neglected when the:

      * Caregiver is intellectually disabled
      * Caregiver lacks parenting skills
      * Parents are isolated
      * Parents are teenagers

A frequent change in caregivers (for example, in orphanages or foster care) is
another cause of reactive attachment disorder.

## Symptoms

In a child, symptoms may include:

      * Avoiding caregiver
      * Avoiding physical contact
      * Difficulty being comforted
      * Not making distinctions when socializing with strangers
      * Wanting to be alone rather than interacting with others

The caregiver will often neglect the child's:

      * Needs for comfort, stimulation, and affection
      * Needs like food, toileting, and play 

## Exams and Tests

This disorder is diagnosed with a:

      * Complete history
      * Physical examination
      * Psychiatric evaluation

## Treatment

Treatment hasÂ two parts. The first goal is to make sure the child is in a
safe environment where emotional and physical needs are met.

Once that has been established, the next step is to change the relationship
between the caregiver and the child, if the caregiver is the problem.
Parenting classes can help the caregiver meet the child's needs and bond with
the child.

Counseling may help the caregiver work on problems, such as drug abuse or
family violence. Social Services should follow the family to make sure the
child remains in a safe, stable environment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The right intervention can improve the outcome.

## Possible Complications

If not treated, this condition can permanently affect the child's ability to
interact with others. It can be connected with:

      * Anxiety
      * Depression
      * Other psychological problems
      * Post-traumatic stress disorder

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This disorder is usually identified when a parent (or prospective parent) is
at high risk for neglect or when an adoptive parent has difficulty coping with
a newly adopted child.

If you have recently adopted a child from a foreign orphanage or another
situation where neglect may have occurred and your child shows these symptoms,
see your health care provider.

## Prevention

Early recognition is very important for the child. Parents who are at high
risk for neglect should be taught parenting skills. The family should be
followed by either a social worker or doctor to make sure the child's needs
are being met.

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Reactive attachment disorder. In: American
Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing;
2013:265-268.

Milosavljevic N, Taylor JB, Brendel RW.Â Psychiatric correlates and
consequences of abuse and neglect. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum
JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry._
2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 84.

Zeanah CH, Chesher T, Boris NW; American Academy of Child and Adolescent
Psychiatry (AACAP) Committee on Quality Issues (CQI). Practice parameter for
the assessment and treatment of children and adolescents with reactive
attachment disorder and disinhibited social engagement disorder. _J Am Acad
Adolesc Psychiatry_. 2016;55(11):990-1003. PMID: 27806867
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27806867.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Mental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildMentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Mental Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

