Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001548.htm    
                                Description: Stereotypic movement disorder is a condition in which a person makes repetitive, purposeless movements. These can be hand waving, body rocking, or head banging. The movements interfere with normal activity    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stereotypic movement disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001548.htm

# Stereotypic movement disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stereotypic movement disorder is a condition in which a person makes
repetitive, purposeless movements. These can be hand waving, body rocking, or
head banging. The movements interfere with normal activity or may cause bodily
harm.

## Causes

Stereotypic movement disorder is more common among boys than girls. The
movements often increase with stress, frustration, and boredom.

The cause of this disorder, when it doesn't occur with other conditions, is
unknown.

Stimulant drugs such as cocaine and amphetamines can cause a severe, short
period of movement behavior. This may include picking, hand wringing, head
tics, or lip-biting. Long-term stimulant use may lead to longer periods of the
behavior.

Head injuries may also cause stereotypic movements.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this disorder may include any of the following movements:

      * Biting self
      * Hand shaking or waving
      * Head banging
      * Hitting own body
      * Mouthing of objects
      * Nail biting
      * Rocking 

## Exams and Tests

AÂ health care providerÂ can usually diagnose this condition with a physical
exam. Tests should be done to rule out other causes including:

      * Autism spectrum disorder
      * Chorea disorders
      * Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
      * Tourette syndrome or other tic disorder 

## Treatment

Treatment should focus on the cause, specific symptoms, and the person's age.

The environment should be changed so that it is safer forÂ people who may
injure themselves.

Behavioral techniques and psychotherapy may be helpful.

Medicines may also help reduce symptoms related to this condition.
Antidepressants have been used in some cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause. Stereotypic movements due to drugs usually
go away on their own after a few hours. Long-term use of stimulants can lead
to longer periods of stereotypic movement behavior. The movements usually go
away once the drug is stopped.

Stereotypic movements due to head injury may be permanent.

The movement problems usually don't progress to other disorders (such as
seizures).

## Possible Complications

Severe stereotypic movements may interfere with normal social functioning.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has repeated, odd movements that last longer
than a few hours.

## Alternative Names

Motor stereotypies

## References

Ryan CA, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Motor disorders and habits. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Singer HS, Mink JW, Gilbert DL, Jankovic J. Motor stereotypies. In: Singer HS,
Mink JW, Gilbert DL, Jankovic J, eds. _Movement Disorders in Childhood_. 2nd
ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Mental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildMentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Mental Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

