Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001448.htm    
                                Description: Mouth ulcers are sores or open lesions in the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mouth ulcers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001448.htm

# Mouth ulcers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mouth ulcers are sores or open lesions in the mouth.

## Causes

Mouth ulcers are caused by many disorders. These include:

      * Canker sores
      * Gingivostomatitis
      * Herpes simplex (fever blister)
      * Leukoplakia
      * Oral cancer
      * Oral lichen planus
      * Oral thrush

A skin sore caused by histoplasmosis may also appear as a mouth ulcer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms will vary, based on the cause of the mouth ulcer. Symptoms may
include:

      * Open sores in the mouth
      * Pain or discomfort in the mouth

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, a health care provider or dentist will look at the ulcer and
where it is in the mouth to make the diagnosis. You may need blood tests or a
biopsy of the ulcer may be needed to confirm the cause.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms.

      * The underlying cause of the ulcer should be treated if it is known. 
      * Gently cleaning your mouth and teeth may help relieve your symptoms.
      * Medicines that you rub directly on the ulcer. These include antihistamines, antacids, and corticosteroids that may help soothe discomfort.
      * Avoid hot or spicy foods until the ulcer is healed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies depending on the cause of the ulcer. Many mouth ulcers are
harmless and heal without treatment.

Some types of cancer may first appear as a mouth ulcer that does not heal.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cellulitis of the mouth, from secondary bacterial infection of ulcers
      * Dental infections (tooth abscesses)
      * Oral cancer
      * Spread of contagious disorders to other people 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * A mouth ulcer does not go away after 3 weeks.
      * You have mouth ulcers return often, or if new symptoms develop.

## Prevention

To help prevent mouth ulcers and complications from them:

      * Brush your teeth at least twice a day and floss once a day.
      * Get regular dental cleanings and checkups. 

## Alternative Names

Oral ulcer; Stomatitis - ulcerative; Ulcer - mouth

## Images

      * ![Oral thrush](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17284t.jpg)Oral thrush
      * ![Canker sore \(aphthous ulcer\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2333t.jpg)Canker sore (aphthous ulcer)
      * ![Lichen planus on the oral mucosa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2493t.jpg)Lichen planus on the oral mucosa
      * ![Mouth sores](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9672t.jpg)Mouth sores

## References

Daniels TE, Jordan RC. Diseases of the mouth and salivary glands. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 425.

Hupp WS. Diseases of the mouth. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:969-975.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Disorders of the
mucous membranes. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM,
eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 34.

Mirowski GW, Leblanc J, Mark LA. Oral disease and oral-cutaneous
manifestations of gastrointestinal and liver disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

