Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001639.htm    
                                Description: An oral mucous cyst is a painless, thin sac on the inner surface of the mouth. It contains clear fluid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oral mucous cyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001639.htm

# Oral mucous cyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An oral mucous cyst is a painless, thin sac on the inner surface of the mouth.
It contains clear fluid.

## Causes

Mucous cysts most often appear near salivary gland openings (ducts). Common
sites and causes of cysts include:

      * Inner surface of the upper or lower lip, inside the cheeks, bottom surface of the tongue. These are called mucoceles. They are often caused by lip biting, lip sucking, or other trauma.
      * Floor of the mouth. These are called ranula. They are caused by blockage of the salivary glands under the tongue.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of mucoceles include:

      * Usually painless, but can be bothersome because you're aware of the bumps in your mouth.
      * Often appears clear, bluish or pink, soft, smooth, round and dome-shaped.
      * Vary in size up to 1 cm in diameter.
      * May break open on their own, but may recur.

Symptoms of ranula include:

      * Usually painless swelling on the floor of the mouth below the tongue.
      * Often appears bluish and dome-shaped.
      * If the cyst is large, chewing, swallowing, talking may be affected.
      * If the cyst grows into the neck muscle, breathing can stop. This is a medical emergency.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose a mucocele or ranula simply by
looking at it. Other tests that may be done include:

      * Biopsy
      * Ultrasound
      * CT scan, usually for ranula that has grown into the neck

## Treatment

A mucous cyst often can be left alone. It usually will rupture on its own. If
the cyst returns, it may need to be removed.

To remove a mucocele, the provider may perform any of the following:

      * Freezing the cyst (cryotherapy)
      * Laser treatment
      * Surgery to cut out the cyst

A ranula is usually removed using laser or surgery. The best outcome is
removing both the cyst and the gland that caused the cyst.

To prevent infection and damage to the tissue, DO NOT try to open the sac
yourself. Treatment should only be done by your provider. Oral surgeons and
some dentists can remove the sac.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Return of the cyst
      * Injury of nearby tissues during removal of a cyst

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you:

      * Notice a cyst or mass in your mouth
      * Have difficulty swallowing or talking

These may be a sign of more serious problem, such as mouth cancer.

## Prevention

Avoiding intentionally sucking the cheeks or biting the lips may help prevent
some mucoceles.

## Alternative Names

Mucocele; Mucous retention cyst; Ranula

## Images

      * ![Mouth sores](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9672t.jpg)Mouth sores

## References

Patterson JW. Cysts, sinuses, and pits. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 16.

Scheinfield N. Mucoceles. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson
I, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

Woo BM. Sublingual gland excision and ductal surgery. In: Kademani D, Tiwana
PS, eds. _Atlas of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 86.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

