Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000084.htm    
                                Description: Pneumomediastinum is air in the mediastinum. The mediastinum is the space in the middle of the chest, between the lungs and around the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumomediastinum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000084.htm

# Pneumomediastinum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumomediastinum is air in the mediastinum. The mediastinum is the space in
the middle of the chest, between the lungs and around the heart.

## Causes

Pneumomediastinum is uncommon. The condition can be caused by injury or
disease. Most often, it occurs when air leaks from any part of the lung or
airways into the mediastinum.

Increased pressure in the lungs or airways may be caused by:

      * Too much coughing
      * Repeated bearing down to increase abdominal pressure (such as pushing during childbirth or a bowel movement)
      * Sneezing
      * Vomiting 

It may also happen after:

      * An infection in the neck or center of the chest
      * Rapid rises in altitude, or scuba diving
      * Tearing of the esophagus (the tube that connects the mouth and stomach)
      * Tearing of the trachea (windpipe)
      * Use of a breathing machine
      * Use of inhaled recreational drugs, such as marijuana or crack cocaine
      * Surgery 

Pneumomediastinum also can occur with collapsed lung (pneumothorax) or other
diseases.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. The condition usually causes chest pain behind the
breastbone, which may spread to the neck or arms. The pain may be worse when
you take a breath or swallow.

## Exams and Tests

During a physical examination, the health care provider may feel small bubbles
of air under the skin of the chest, arms, or neck.

A chest x-ray or CT scan of the chest may be done. This isÂ to confirm that
air isÂ in the mediastinum, and to help diagnose a hole in the trachea or
esophagus.

## Treatment

Often, no treatment is needed because the body will gradually absorb the air.
Breathing high concentrations of oxygen may speed this process.

The provider may put in a chest tube if you also have a collapsed lung. You
may also need treatment for the cause of the problem.Â A hole in the trachea
or esophagus needs to be repaired with surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the disease or events that caused the
pneumomediastinum.

## Possible Complications

Air may build up and enter the space around the lungs (pleural space), causing
the lung to collapse.

In rare cases, air may enter the area between the heart and the thin sac that
surrounds the heart. This condition is called a pneumopericardium.

In other rare cases, so much air builds up in the middle of the chest that it
pushes on the heart and the great blood vessels, so they cannot work properly.

All of these complications require urgent attention because they can be life
threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have severe chest pain or difficulty breathing.

## Alternative Names

Mediastinal emphysema

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Cheng GS, Varghese TK, Park DR. Pneumomediastinum and mediastinitis. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
84.

Mccool FD. Diseases of the diaphragm, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 99.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

