

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Our Work: 2019

Minus

Related Pages

### Our Work - 2019

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * November
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * August
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * June
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * April
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * March
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * February
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * January

2019 Antibiotic Resistance Threats Report out now

![Antibiotic Resitance: New Threat banner](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/ar-
threat-report.jpg)

On November 13, CDC released its 2019 Antibiotic Resistance Threats Report. It
provides new national estimates showing that more than 2.8 million antibiotic-
resistant infections occur each year and 35,000 people die as a result. Using
data sources not previously available, the new report shows that there were
nearly twice as many annual deaths from antibiotic-resistant infections as CDC
originally reported in 2013. Since then, prevention efforts have reduced
deaths from antibiotic-resistant infections by 18% overall and by nearly 30%
in hospitals, the data show.

Antibiotic Resistance & Patient Safety Portal now available

![Antibiotic Resistance & Patient Safety Portal
screenshot](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/arpsp-screenshot.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Antibiotic Resistance &amp; Patient Safety Portal
screenshot](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/arpsp-screenshot.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

CDC launched its Antibiotic Resistance & Patient Safety Portal (AR&PSP) on
November 1 with the _2018_ _National and State Healthcare-Associated
Infections (HAI) Progress Report_, including national and state profiles. The
AR&PSP is an interactive web-based application that was created to display
data collected through our National Healthcare Safety Network and other
sources. Visit the portal to view enhanced data visualizations on antibiotic
resistance, use, and stewardship datasets as well as data about HAIs. Upcoming
releases will include data from our AR Lab Network and other CDC sources.

The Ebola response in DRC continues

![Mary Choi at ID week](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/mary-choi-at-id-
week.jpg)

Mary Choi discusses progress combating Ebola during the ID Week Conference.

resize iconView Larger

Close![Mary Choi at ID week](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/mary-choi-at-id-
week.jpg)

Mary Choi discusses progress combating Ebola during the ID Week Conference.

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

November 1 marked 15 months since the current outbreak of Ebola virus disease
emerged in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The international
response to this outbreak has led to a sharp decline in the number of new
cases--from well over 100 a week in April to fewer than 20 recently. CDC
recently recounted some of the progress being made against the disease to a
packed house at the Infectious Disease (ID) Week conference in Washington, DC.

However, the epidemic is not over. New cases have occurred in areas where
surveillance and contact tracing are difficult, so we may not have a full
picture of what's happening. CDC will stay engaged with its partners in DRC
and international organizations until the outbreak can be declared over.

Enteric disease outbreak investigations

![Bowl of Romaine Lettuce](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/bowl-of-romaine-
lettuce.png)

CDC, with federal and state partners, is investigating various multistate
foodborne outbreaks, including the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _coli_ O157:H7 infections linked to romaine lettuce. Forty ill people in 16 states have been reported; 28 of those people have been hospitalized. CDC advises consumers, restaurants, and retailers not to eat, serve, or sell romaine lettuce harvested from the Salinas, California growing region, including whole heads of romaine, hearts of romaine, and packages of precut lettuce and salad mixes that contain romaine, including spring mix and Caesar salad.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Dublin infections linked to ground beef. Eleven ill people in seven states have been reported; eight of those people have been hospitalized and one has died. Central Valley Meat Co. in Hanford, California has recalled ground beef that may be contaminated with _Salmonella_ A single, common supplier of ground beef has not been identified.

Media roundtable in Puerto Rico highlights dengue

![Reporters check out the show-and-tell displays.](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/2019/media-roundtable.jpg)

Reporters check out the show-and-tell displays.

resize iconView Larger

Close![Reporters check out the show-and-tell displays.](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/2019/media-roundtable.jpg)

Reporters check out the show-and-tell displays.

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

CDC hosted a media roundtable on November 5. Two media outlets attended, CDC
staff gave presentations and facilitated the event. A show-and-tell area gave
reporters a chance to look at mosquitoes and their life cycle and different
traps used by the Entomology Team in the field. _El Nuevo D ia_, Puerto Rico's
most popular newspaper, dedicated a full pageexternal icon to lessons learned
at the event (see Google's translationexternal icon) and ran a follow-up
articleexternal icon on dengue. A journalist from the regional newspaper
_Presencia_ attended as well. Even though a WAPA Radio reporter couldn't
attend, this popular station also reported on the roundtable and the
possibility of an increase in dengue cases.

Strengthening Ebola prevention and control

![Strengthening Ebola prevention and control](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/2019/women-wearing-ppe-in-uganda.jpg)

As part of CDC's Ebola preparedness response, healthcare personnel at Bwera
Hospital in Uganda participate in an infection prevention and control
training.

In a personal protective equipment (PPE) supplementexternal icon in _Clinical
Infectious Diseases_ , CDC scientists summarize recent data from CDC's
Prevention Epicenters Program and describe steps for improving the routine use
of PPE as well as Ebola-specific PPE in healthcare settings. And in an October
4 _MMWR_ article, scientists and colleagues from CDC, Makerere University
(Uganda), and the Uganda Ministry of Health describe CDC's rapid scale-up of
infection prevention and control (IPC) assessments in four frontline
healthcare facilities in Uganda shortly after the recognition of the Ebola
outbreak in neighboring areas of Democratic Republic of Congo.

CDC experts respond to surge in mosquito-borne diseases

![CDC experts respond to surge in mosquito-borne
diseases](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/dominic-rose-and-janet-
mcallister.jpg)

Dominic Rose (at left) collects mosquito larvae while Janet McAllister records
data.

A busy mosquito season has prompted several CDC deployments for vector-borne
disease outbreak responses. CDC visited Arizona to provide technical
assistance to health officials in that state, which as of October 15 had
reported more West Nile virus disease cases than any other state this year. A
CDC team also traveled to the Marshall Islands to help local health
authorities respond to a dengue outbreak (you can see them at work in the
photo). In response to a technical assistance request from Honduras,
experiencing its worst dengue outbreak in 50 years, CDC helped local health
officials enhance the country's dengue surveillance and evaluate patients who
died of this disease. The team visited local hospitals and dengue units to
evaluate and recommend improvements to patient care and met with public health
organizations such as the Pan American Health Organization. CDC traveled to
Guam in October to help local health officials with mosquito surveillance and
control efforts as they respond to the country's first dengue outbreak in over
70 years.

CDC helps states combat eastern equine encephalitis

![mosquito](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/mosquito.png)

As of October 29, a total of 35 cases of eastern equine encephalitis in
people, including 13 deaths, have been reported so far this year. This is the
highest number of cases reported in any given year in the last 50 years. In
response, CDC has provided technical assistance for mosquito control and
diagnostic testing to Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Rhode Island. The
Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Prevention and Control of Emerging
Infectious Diseases (ELC) recently awarded special funding to the same four
states to support surveillance and mosquito abatement efforts to address the
outbreak. ELC and DVBD staff worked with the four states to determine the
states' areas of greatest need and finalize funding recommendations.

Enteric disease outbreak investigation

![a turtle](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/turtle.png)

CDC, with federal and state partners, is investigating a multistate outbreak
of _Salmonella_ infections linked to pet turtles. Twenty-one ill people in 13
states have been reported. Sick people reported buying the turtles from pet
stores or receiving them as a gift.

Congressional briefing highlights success of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
Challenge

![Congressional briefing highlights success of Antimicrobial Resistance
\(AMR\) Challenge](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/briefing-on-amr-
challenge.jpg)

Senator Bob Casey addresses attendees during the briefing. Seated at the table
(L-R) are Amanda Jezek (IDSA), Susan van Meter (AdvaMedDx), Michael Craig,
Robin Patel (ASM/Mayo Clinic), and Calvin Yu (Becton Dickinson).

On October 24, the CDC participated in a Congressional briefing, _Leading the
Charge Against Antimicrobial Resistance: Partnering to Meet the Challenge_.
Sponsored by AdvaMedDx, the American Society for Microbiology, Becton
Dickinson, and Research!America, the briefing highlighted the success of the
AMR Challenge, one of the most ambitious and successful initiatives to
catalyze action against antimicrobial resistance.

CDC has received broad support within HHS and Congress for utilizing the
Challenge to build public-private partnerships across the One Health spectrum
to combat antimicrobial resistance. A representative for the CDC's Antibiotic
Resistance Coordination and Strategy Unit briefed staffers from dozens of
Congressional offices on how CDC is leading the public health charge against
antimicrobial resistance by leveraging partnerships from across sectors,
industries, and countries.

CDC Expert Breaks Down Pandemic Scenes From Film & TV for WIRED

![CDC Expert Breaks Down Pandemic Scenes From Film & TV for
WIRED](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/cdc-expert-breaks-down-films.png)

WIRED meets an outbreak expert: CDC 's Brian Amman sets Hollywood straight
during an on-camera deconstruction of popular TV and movie outbreak scenes
with WIRED. Brian gives a no-nonsense read from a scientist's perspective on
portrayals of diseases like Ebola and smallpox--as well as scenarios that
include zombies and extraterrestrials.

Ebola outbreak passes milestones

![Henry Walke in DRC](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/henry-walke-in-drc.jpg)

Henry Walke (center), CDC's Ebola Response incident manager, talks to
reporters during his recent visit to Dominican Republic of Congo and
neighboring countries.

The outbreak of Ebola in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) has
surpassed 3,000 cases and 2,000 deaths. As of October 1, a total of 3,197
cases and 2,136 deaths have been reported since the outbreak began in August
2018. There have been 991 survivors.

CDC responds to massive Texas anthrax outbreak

Texas is in the midst of its worst anthrax season since at least 2001, with
one confirmed case in a person and confirmed animal cases on at least 20
ranches in five counties in southwest Texas. This compares with two to four
confirmed animal cases in an average year in the whole state.

CDC has been consulting with federal and state health, agriculture, and
environmental agencies to better assess the extent of the outbreak and help
prevent human cases.

CDC continues to emphasize the importance of livestock vaccination against
anthrax and getting an accurate count of affected animals. Local officials
have theorized that there may be more cases in animals this year due to
environmental conditions and increased numbers of biting flies. Outbreaks in
west Texas have historically been associated with wet winters, followed by dry
conditions, similar to the current conditions. Since anthrax spores can
survive for years in the environment, the outbreak could have implications for
disease for years to come.

A first for One Health in Latin America

![One Health in Latin America](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/one-health-
latin-america.jpg)

Participants make notes during a One Health program exercise in Columbia in
August

CDC's One Health Office conducted a One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization
Workshop in Bogota, Colombia, during August 26-30. This was the first workshop
of its kind in Latin America.

The top zoonotic disease threats in Colombia include brucellosis, encephalitis
viruses (eastern equine encephalitis, Venezuelan equine encephalitis, western
equine encephalitis, and West Nile viruses), avian influenza, leptospirosis,
rabies, and zoonotic tuberculosis. To date, CDC has helped to host 25
workshops around the world to help countries, regions, and other jurisdictions
prioritize their top zoonotic diseases of concern and make plans to advance a
One Health approach.

AMR Challenge at the United Nations

![The AMR Challenge](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/amrc-sm.jpg)

AMR Challenge guests viewed art and videos aimed at generating awareness about
the topic.

As the UN General Assembly convened on September 23, Secretary Alex Azar
celebrated the successful US-led AMR Challenge year by urging world leaders to
keep antibiotic resistance a top priority.

The AMR Challenge was an unprecedented global initiative led by CDC and HHS to
head off the threat posed by resistant germs. CDC collected nearly 350
commitments from 33 countries to escalate government, civil society, and
private industry efforts to save lives by improving infection prevention and
use of antibiotics, developing new vaccines and drugs, and sharing data to
help scientists stay ahead of antibiotic-resistant germs.

EID goes electric

![September's 2019 EID cover](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/2019/sept-2019-journal-cover.jpg)

_Emerging Infectious Diseases_ is going green and transitioning to an online-
only journal starting with the January 2020 issue. Visit the journal's website
to read any of _EID_ 's 10,000-plus articles, along with a trove of
supplementary material. You can search for articles by topic, country, or
author, and explore 14 curated spotlight topics.

Take a few minutes to sign up for email notifications for the journal's
monthly table of contents, free CME articles, podcasts, and more than 20
infectious disease topics of interest.

Outbreak investigations linked to food and animals

![Always Wash Your Hands poster](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/always-wash-
your-hands.jpg)

DFWED, with federal and state partners, is investigating numerous multistate
foodborne outbreaks, including the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to backyard poultry. Two deaths and over 1,000 illnesses have been reported from 49 states.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ infections linked to contact with pig ear dog treats. Over 140 illnesses have been reported from 35 states. CDC and FDA advise people not to buy or feed any pig ear dog treats at this time.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to Cavi brand whole, fresh papayas. Seventy-one illnesses have been reported from eight states.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _E. coli_ infections linked to ground bison produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc. Twenty-one illnesses have been reported from seven states.

Ebola outbreak reaches 3,000 cases

August marked one year since the current Ebola outbreak was declared in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. The number of cases has surpassed 3,000,
including more than 2,000 deaths, making this the second-largest Ebola
epidemic on record. CDC staff have conducted more than 360 deployments. CDC
continues to work closely with our partners, at home and abroad, to end the
outbreak.

New infection control training launched

![Strive logo](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/strive-logo.jpg)

CDC launched a series of 11 new infection control training courses as part of
the new States Targeting Reduction in Infections via Engagement (STRIVE)
curriculum for infection prevention teams, hospital leaders, clinical
educators, nurse and physician managers, environmental services managers, all
patient care staff, and patient/family advisors. The STRIVE curriculum will
include over 40 individual training modules grouped into 11 courses that focus
on foundational and targeted infection prevention strategies, and it will
offer free Continuing Education. These training courses were developed by
national infection prevention experts led by the Health Research & Educational
Trustexternal icon.

CDC and PulseNet labs in all 50 states now use whole genome sequencing to
detect foodborne outbreaks

![PulseNet goes to WGS](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/pulsenet-to-wgs.jpg)

CDC and its public health partners in all 50 states are tracking and
classifying foodborne illness in a new way, using whole genome sequencing
(WGS) to detect and stop outbreaks and combat drug-resistant bacteria.
PulseNet, the national network of laboratories that detects outbreaks of
foodborne disease, moved to this new gold standard on July 15. By giving us
more data about the foodborne bacteria that make people sick, WGS improves
investigators' ability to link cases of illness to outbreaks and identify
common sources of infection.

Public Health Grand Rounds provides updates on emerging tickborne diseases

![Beyond the data interview](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2019/beyond-the-
data.jpg)

Public Health Grand Rounds interviewed CDC's Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch Chief
**Gil Kersh** for a webcast, "Beyond the Data--Emerging Tickborne Diseases,"
which was posted on July 16 following an encore presentation of the 2017 Grand
Rounds session on "Emerging Tickborne Diseases." Gil discussed changes since
the 2017 presentation, including increased numbers of tickborne disease cases,
new materials for healthcare providers, and hot topics such as alpha-gal
allergy and the Asian longhorned tick.

June Vital Signs focused on rabies

![June Vital Signs focused on rabies](/ncezid/images/recent-
work/vs-0619-Rabies-fb-twitter-01-medium.png)

"Rabies: A Forgotten Killer" was the theme for CDC's June _Vital Signs_ report
released on June 13. Human deaths from rabies in the United States have
declined dramatically over the past 80 years, from about 30-50 each year in
the 1940s to an average of 1-3 per year today. This decrease is primarily due
to routine pet vaccination and the availability of postexposure prophylaxis
(PEP) using rabies vaccine and rabies immune globulin. Each year, about 55,000
people get PEP after a potential rabies exposure. Bats are responsible for
around 70% of rabies deaths among people in recent years.

Measles outbreaks worldwide

Measles is a highly contagious disease, and outbreaks are occurring worldwide.
CDC's Travelers' Health Branch has posted a global measles outbreak travel
notice. CDC has conducted over 75 contact investigations for measles involving
more than 1,500 contacts in 2019 alone (compared with 81 contact
investigations in 2018 and 15 in 2017). CDC is also working with partners to
ensure that US-bound refugees are vaccinated or immune to measles before they
travel.

Ebola in DRC

![Ebola in DRC](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ebola-in-drc-medium.jpg)

On June 13, CDC activated its Emergency Operations Center to support the
response to the current outbreak of Ebola in Democratic Republic of the Congo
(DRC). This outbreak is the second-largest outbreak of Ebola ever and the
largest in DRC's history. As of July 7, a total of 2,418 cases and 1,625
deaths from the disease have been reported.

On June 24, CDC released an Ebola PSA recorded by Congolese native and retired
professional basketball player Dikembe Mutombo. CDC is grateful to Mr. Mutombo
for helping to reduce misinformation and encouraging communities to work
together to combat Ebola. The PSA focuses on four key messages: getting
treatment as quickly as possible, keeping away from fluids of people who are
sick with Ebola or who have died from it, allowing safe and dignified burials
for family members who have died, and accepting the vaccine.

New infection control training tools

![New infection control training tools](/ncezid/images/recent-work/new-
infection-control-training-tools.png)

CDC launched two new infection prevention and control (IPC) training tools for
nurses and environmental services (EVS) personnel. The first, "Let's Talk
Patient Safety: Reducing HAI Transmission Risk," is an online interactive
infection control training that offers free continuing education and helps
frontline healthcare professionals identify infection risks and prevent the
spread of healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). The second, "EVS and the
Battle against Infection," is an interactive graphic novel that illustrates
the important role of EVS personnel in preventing HAIs. The training features
real-world IPC scenarios and allows participants to choose options that affect
the story's outcome.

Latest outbreaks

![chickens](/ncezid/images/homepage/salmonella-poultry.jpg)

CDC, with federal and state partners, is investigating various outbreaks,
including the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _E. coli_ infections linked to flour. Eight states have reported 17 cases of Shiga toxin-producing _E. coli_ O26 infections linked to flour. On May 23, 2019, ADM Milling Co. and ALDI recalled 5-lb. bags of Baker's Corner All Purpose Flour because they may be contaminated with _E. coli_. CDC recommends that consumers not use any of the recalled flour. If you stored flour purchased from ALDI in another contaimer and don't remember the brand or "better by" date, throw it away. Consumers should thoroughly wash the containers before using them again.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastrointestinal illnesses linked to oysters imported from Mexico. Five states have reported 16 people with illnesses linked to multiple pathogens, including _Vibrio parahaemolyticus_ , _Vibrio albensis_ , _Shigella flexneri_ , and Shiga toxin-producing _coli_ non-O157. CDC advises consumers, restaurants, and retailers not to eat, serve, or sell oysters harvested from Estero El Cardon, an estuary in Baja California Sur, Mexico.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to contact with backyard poultry. Twenty-one states have reported 52 illnesses. CDC recommends that people always wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water right after handling chicken, ducks, other live poultry, or anything in the environment where they live and roam. Set aside a pair of shoes to wear while taking care of poultry and keep those shoes outside the house.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ infections linked to Karawan and SoCo brands of tahini. Three states have reported four ill people, including one person who was hospitalized. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers not eat, serve, or sell recalled Karawan or SoCo brands of tahini. If you have Karawan or SoCo brands of tahini and do not know if they were recalled, do not eat them. Throw them away.

New report on US One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization process

![Zoonotic Disease Prioritization Workshop](/onehealth/images/us-ohzdp-
report-508.jpg)

On April 24, CDC's One Health Office released its report from the US One
Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization Workshop. The workshop, its report, and
the list of priority zoonotic diseases from the workshop--the result of a
joint effort between CDC, the US Department of Agriculture, and the US
Department of the Interior--represent a critical step toward a coordinated,
US-specific approach to One Health. The report covers the prioritization
process, the eight priority diseases, and discussions and recommendations for
addressing these zoonotic diseases using a One Health approach.

Temporary suspension of importation of dogs from Egypt

Given that three rabid dogs have been imported from Egypt since May 2015, CDC
is temporarily suspending the importation of dogs from Egypt, including dogs
originating in Egypt that are imported from third-party countries, if the dogs
have lived in those countries for less than 6 months. CDC is taking this
action to protect public health and prevent the reintroduction of dog rabies
(canine rabies virus variant), which has been eliminated from the United
States since 2007. CDC will maintain this suspension until appropriate
veterinary safeguards have been established to prevent the importation of
rabid dogs from Egypt.

New RMSF training module

![Rocky Mountain spotted fever \(RMSF\) training module](/ncezid/images/what-
we-do/RMSFDeadly_1200x627-small.jpg)

On May 13, CDC debuted a new Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) training
module to help clinicians recognize and diagnose RMSF, a bacterial disease
spread through the bite of an infected tick. The signs and symptoms of RMSF
can be difficult to differentiate from those of other diseases, but early
recognition and treatment are key to preventing severe and fatal outcomes. The
module includes knowledge checks, case-based scenarios, and a rash comparison
tool. Free continuing education credit is available for physicians, nurse
practitioners, physician assistants, veterinarians, nurses, epidemiologists,
public health professionals, educators, and health communicators.

Latest foodborne outbreaks

  

![April - Latest foodborne outbreaks](/ncezid/images/recent-work/april-whats-
new-foodborne-outbreaks-medium_cropped.jpg)

CDC, with federal and state partners, is investigating various multistate
foodborne outbreaks, including the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _E. coli_ O103 infections linked to ground beef. Ten states have reported 177 illnesses. Two companies have recalled ground beef products that were sold to restaurants and institutions because they may be contaminated with _E. coli_ O103. CDC advises consumers and restaurants to handle and cook ground beef safely.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Carrau illnesses linked to pre-cut melons produced by Caito Foods LLC. Ten states have reported 117 illnesses. CDC advises consumers, retailers, and restaurants not to eat, serve, or sell recalled pre-cut melons.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Newport illnesses linked to frozen, raw ground tuna produced by Jensen Tuna and distributed to restaurants and retailers. Seven states have reported 13 illnesses. CDC advises consumers not to order or buy prepared sushi or other foods containing recalled tuna. Restaurants and retailers should not sell or serve recalled tuna _._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Listeria_ infections linked to deli-sliced meats and cheeses. Four states have reported eight illnesses, including one death. CDC is not advising that consumers avoid eating products prepared at delis, or that retailers stop selling deli-sliced products.

One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization in Alaska

One Health Office staff traveled to Fairbanks, Alaska, where they met with
staff from DPEI's Arctic Investigations Program (AIP) and participants from
tribal, local, state, and federal partners to facilitate a One Health Zoonotic
Disease Prioritization Workshop. While the One Health Office has assisted in
conducting over 20 workshops to help countries and regions prioritize zoonotic
diseases of greatest concern, this was the first time it had been done at the
state level. AIP co-hosted the two days of meetings with the University of
Alaska as part of its ongoing efforts to encourage a One Health approach to
improving health in Alaska and the Arctic.

2017 HAI progress report highlights continued prevention progress

![woman working on laptop computer while holding cell
phone](/ncezid/images/recent-work/psa-2-small.jpg)

In other healthcare-associated infection news, CDC published the _2017
National and State Healthcare-Associated Infection (HAI) Progress Report_ and
updated the Patient Safety Atlas to include 2017 HAI data. The report includes
data across four healthcare settings: acute-care hospitals, critical access
hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, and long-term acute care
hospitals. This report shows that the United States has made significant
reductions in several types of HAIs and highlights areas where more
improvements are needed.

CDC assists with rabies workshop in China

CDC staff recently led a rabies exercise in Beijing with experts from human
and animal health sectors in China's national government and 12 provinces. The
exercise was part of the country's efforts to work toward eliminating by 2030
human rabies cases spread by bites of rabid dogs. The participants used the
Stepwise Approach towards Rabies Elimination (SARE) tool, which helps
countries evaluate their current gaps and prioritize the short- and long-term
activities needed to eliminate human rabies cases linked to dogs. The SARE
tool is used throughout the world and provides a standard mechanism for
countries to assess their rabies situation and measure progress.

New infection control training for nursing home staff

![Nursing home infection prevention training course
graphic.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/nursing-home-infection.png)

CDC released a new Nursing Home Infection Preventionist Training
Courseexternal icon, a comprehensive, free, online training for staff
responsible for infection prevention and control programs. The course,
developed in collaboration with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
(CMS), provides an overview of the core activities of an infection prevention
and control program and recommended practices to prevent healthcare-associated
infections, control the spread of pathogens, and combat antibiotic resistance
in nursing homes. This course is designed to help facilities provide staff
with the required specialized infection prevention and control training as it
relates to the phased implementation of CMS Requirements for Participation for
Nursing Homesexternal icon

Ebola cases top 1,000 in DRC

The total number of people infected with Ebola virus in the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC) has surpassed 1,000 (confirmed and probable). As of
March 27, the total number of confirmed and probable cases was 1,044,
including 642 deaths. CDC remains committed to working closely with the DRC
Ministry of Health, the World Health Organization, and other partners to end
this outbreak. CDC is deploying more staff to DRC to provide technical
assistance and support for the response. For more details about the outbreak,
see the latest media statement.

Updated Zika travel guidance

![A world map showing zika travel guidance.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/zika-
travel-guidance-medium.png)

After reviewing current data on the spread of Zika, CDC updated its Zika
travel guidance. Some areas of the world continue to experience outbreaks of
Zika, while other areas have confirmed Zika in the past but may not have
recent cases. CDC now recommends that pregnant women and couples trying to
become pregnant within the next three months talk to their healthcare
providers and carefully consider the risks and possible consequences of Zika
infection before traveling to areas that have had active Zika transmission,
even those where there is no current outbreak. CDC's recommendation that
pregnant women not travel to areas where a Zika outbreak is occurring has not
changed. For more information, see the World Map of Areas with Zika.

Vital Signs: Staph infections can kill

![Graphic of doctors working on patient representing staff infections and how
they can kill.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/staff-infections.png)

The March 2019 Vital Signs report was about the national burden of infection
and death caused by all _Staphylococcus aureus_ (staph) in hospitals and the
community. More than 119,000 people suffered from bloodstream staph infections
in the United States in 2017--and nearly 20,000 died. The report underscores
that both types of _S. aureus_ (methicillin-resistant or MRSA, and
methicillin-susceptible or MSSA) can be deadly.

The findings show that hospital infection control efforts successfully reduced
rates of serious staph infections in the U.S. (about 17% each year 2005-2012).
Recent data, however, show that this success is slowing and the rise in staph
infections in the community may be linked to the opioid crisis.

_JAMA_ article and podcast on next-generation sequencing of infectious
pathogens

![A man working at a workstation](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ghost-
workstation-md.jpg)

A new _JAMA_ articleexternal icon describes ongoing advances being made by
CDC's Advanced Molecular Detection (AMD) program in the field of next-
generation sequencing. _JAMA_ also posted a related clinical review podcast
episodeexternal icon in which two of the article's authors discussed the
potential next-generation sequencing holds for improving clinical and public
health microbiology.

New training videos on hantavirus and Lassa fever offer free Continuing
Education

![Lassa fever banner with images of disease and doctor checking off a list of
how to recognize and diagnose the disease.](/ncezid/images/recent-work/lassa-
fever-md.jpg)

Hantavirus disease is an uncommon illness in people, but it can cause severe
or even fatal disease. While cases have occurred in most states across the
country, incidence is highest in the west. CDC, in collaboration with Navajo
Nation, Indian Health Service, and the Arizona and New Mexico departments of
health, created a hantavirus training video for healthcare providers in the
Four Corners region. This video focuses on the risk factors, clinical
presentation, and methods for identifying hantavirus disease, as well as
parameters for clinical management.

While viral hemorrhagic fevers (VHFs) like Lassa fever are very serious, they
are not commonly seen in the United States. However, it is important for
healthcare providers to understand high-consequence viruses such as Lassa so
they can appropriately diagnose and care for their patients. CDC created two
training videos for healthcare providers to learn about Lassa fever risk
factors, incubation period, clinical presentation, diagnoses, treatment, and
infection control measures for Lassa fever patients.

Arctic Investigations Program and Alaska Native partners take a jab at the flu

DPEI's Arctic Investigations Program (AIP) works closely with Alaska Native
partners to improve the health of Alaska and Arctic residents. They do this
through research, surveillance, outbreak investigations--and flu shot clinics!
For the past 10 years, AIP has set up shop at the health fair attached to the
Alaska Federation of Natives Convention, the largest gathering of Native
peoples in the United States. The Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium and
the Southcentral Foundation are organizations that provide health services to
Alaska Natives. They provide the vaccine doses and AIP's medical staff run the
clinic. This year, staff administered 450 doses to anyone who requested it,
including many repeat customers and US Senator Dan Sullivan.

CDC revises dog importation policy

On January 31, CDC's Division of Global Migration and Quarantine published the
Rabies-Free Dog Importation Guidanceexternal icon and updated the Importation
Laws and Regulations webpage to add the Federal Register Notice. Since canine
rabies virus variant (CRVV) was declared eliminated in the United States in
2007, federal importation regulations have successfully prevented
reimportation of CRVV into this country, even though other rabies viruses
still circulate among some wildlife species. The new policy focuses on the
presence or absence of CRVV in the country the dog is coming from and the risk
of reintroduction of CRVV into the United States. Requiring rabies vaccination
of dogs from countries with high risk of CRVV transmission helps prevent CRVV
from entering the United States, thereby lowering the risk of CRVV infection
among humans.

Outbreaks of _Salmonella_ infections

![Image of a hedgehog](/ncezid/images/recent-work/hedgehog.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Reading infections linked to raw turkey products. As of February 15, 2019, a total of 279 ill people had been reported from 41 states. Always handle raw turkey carefully and cook it thoroughly to prevent foodborne illness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs. As of January 25, 2019, eleven ill people have been reported from eight states. Don't snuggle or kiss pet hedgehogs, because this can spread their germs to you.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Newport infections linked to ground beef. As of December 12, 2018, a total of 333 ill people had been reported from 28 states. Always handle and cook ground beef safely and cook it thoroughly to avoid foodborne illness.

Update on Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo

![A bat hanging upside down](/ncezid/images/recent-work/bat-ebola-democratic-
republic-of-congo.jpg)

The Ebola outbreak in DRC continues to be a significant area of effort for CDC
staff. The outbreak has been ongoing for over five months and has grown to 733
cases and 459 deaths (as of January 27th). Community resistance and security
concerns continue to hamper response activities, and the recent general
elections created even more tension in the area and throughout the country.
CDC is working closely with partners to explore new approaches for
strengthening the response and containing the outbreak.

A U.S. citizen was evacuated from DRC for observation at the University of
Nebraska Medical Center following a high risk exposure. Luckily, the citizen
completed their observation period without exhibiting any symptoms.

In addition, a new studyexternal icon out of China describes the
characterization of a distinct filovirus (the virus family which includes
Ebola and Marburg viruses) discovered in bats, named Měngla virus (MLAV). It's
not yet known if MLAV could cause disease in either animals or people.

Drug-resistant infections in Mexico

CDC posted a travel notice about recent cases of carbapenem-resistant
_Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ infections among US residents who had invasive
surgery in Tijuana, Mexico. Most of the patients had undergone bariatric
procedures, and approximately half had surgery at the Grand View Hospital in
Tijuana. As a result of the investigation, the Mexican government closed the
hospital until further notice. CDC recommends that travelers to Tijuana not
have surgery at this hospital until the Mexican health authorities can confirm
that the drug-resistant form of _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ is no longer present
there.

AR Investment Map updated

![Two pdf covers for AR invested map solutions](/ncezid/images/recent-work/ar-
invested-map.jpg)

CDC has released new data in its Antibiotic Resistance (AR) Investment Map,
which showcases CDC's funding in fiscal year 2018 to support efforts that
protect people from antibiotic resistance in the United States and abroad. For
the first time, the tool includes CDC's extramural global AR activities and
highlights successes that followed Congress' unprecedented investment in CDC's
AR Solutions Initiative.

The AR Investment Map features

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global and domestic extramural collaborations to identify and implement innovative solutions to protect people from the threat of antibiotic resistance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More than 170 state-reported successes (e.g., containing rare and concerning resistant germs to protect communities and stop dangerous germs from spreading).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Printable global-, state-, and city-specific fact sheets that describe how CDC invests in activities in that area.

Trapping bats in Uganda to learn about Marburg

![Scientist in Python Cave in Uganda](/ncezid/images/recent-work/python-cave-
uganda.jpg)

Python Cave in Uganda is not only home to snakes, but to thousands of Egyptian
fruit bats. Several recent human cases of Marburg virus - a close cousin to
Ebola - have surfaced with links to these bats, and nearby villages have
experienced devastating outbreaks. To better understand how Marburg virus is
spread, CDC worked with Ugandan experts to put GPS units on the backs of bats
to track their movements. By learning where the bats travel at night, we hope
to better predict which areas are most at risk for Marburg and stop the next
outbreak before it ever starts. Watch the videoexternal icon about the journey
and read a Washington Post articleexternal icon by Lena Sun, who followed
along with the team.

New report on antimicrobial resistance in the environment

CDC, with UK Science and Innovation Network and the Wellcome Trust, recently
released a report summarizing existing scientific evidence on how antibiotics
and antibiotic-resistant germs can be present in the environment from human
and animal waste, pharmaceutical manufacturing waste, and use of antimicrobial
pesticides for crops. The report shows that more research is needed and
describes actions to address knowledge gaps. Find the report here under CDC
Collaborations.

Page last reviewed: February 10, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home NCEZID

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Division and Office Overviewsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DFWED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DGMQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHCPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DHQP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DPEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DSR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DVBD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OAMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Organizational Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Director Profile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strategic Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Our Name
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CLIA Certificates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Connect with Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs Newplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newsroom 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Newsroom 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recent Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Our Work: 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Border Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Deadly Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Foodborne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare-Associated Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Public Health Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State, Local, and Tribal Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Technological Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne and Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cross-cutting Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Health at Home & Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID Around The World
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tribal Health in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Innovationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Biothreats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fungal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hantavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Smallpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preventing Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Whole Genome Sequencing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Future Innovations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Moving the needle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Breaking the mold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Collaborating to make a difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Combating infections in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Confronting infections across the globe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Observing significant milestones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting Patients from Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Protecting People from Domestic Health Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fighting Global Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Safeguarding Travelers & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Building Lab and Epi Capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * One Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Looking Ahead to 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Our Year in Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Vector-borne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Global & Border Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Domestic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks (Global)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Support to States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Lab Expertise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2014 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2013 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2011-2012 Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Partnersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and Hilton Foundation partner to improve global water, sanitation, and hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Center of Excellence Provides Much-Needed Assistance After Hurricane Harvey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New rapid rabies test could revolutionize testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hatcheries work with CDC to prevent _Salmonella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthier and safer in the water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The power of innovation to advance public health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent illnesses between people and pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEZID partners on cryptococcal screening in South Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC and BD Partner to Fight Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * World leaders partner to combat antibiotic resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Airline helps CDC save lives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Turning human waste into affordable fuel in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Promoting Antibiotic Stewardship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 100 Partners Work to Promote Safe Injection Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting People in Haiti from Deadly Rabies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strengthening Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Workforce in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Making Plague a Disease of the Past in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing New Tools To Fight Monkeypox Outbreaks in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ending Cholera Globally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improving Diagnoses of Zika and Other Vector-Borne Diseases in Indonesia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protecting Newborns in India from Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training Infection Prevention and Control Specialists in Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Responds to a Dangerous Fungus Here and Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance in India
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epidemiology Training Helps Cholera Response in Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Response in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HAIs in the Country of Georgia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vector-borne Disease Research in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CHAMPS Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global Rabies Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zoonotic Diseases in Ethiopia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Reservoir Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animations and Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive a monthly update highlighting our recent work to prevent infectious
disease, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

