Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000298.htm    
                                Description: You or your child had surgery to correct pectus excavatum. This is an abnormal formation of the rib cage that gives the chest a caved-in or sunken appearance.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pectus excavatum - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000298.htm

# Pectus excavatum - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You or your child had surgery to correct pectus excavatum. This is an abnormal
formation of the rib cage that gives the chest a caved-in or sunken
appearance.

Follow your doctor's instructions on self-care at home.

## When You or Your Child Was in the Hospital

The surgery was done either as an open or closed procedure. With open surgery
a single cut (incision) was made across the front part of the chest. With a
closed procedure, two small incisions were made, one on each side of the
chest. Surgical tools were inserted through the incisions to perform the
surgery.

During surgery, either a metal bar or struts were placed in the chest cavity
to hold the breastbone in the correct position. The metal bar will stay in
place for about 1 to 3 years. The struts will be removed in 6 to 12 months.

## Home Care

You or your child should walk often during the day to build up strength. You
may need to help your child get in and out of bed during the first 1 to 2
weeks after surgery.

During the first month at home, be sure you or your child:

      * Always bend over at the hips.
      * Sit up straight to help keep the bar in place. DO NOT slouch.
      * DO NOT roll onto either side. 

It may be more comfortable to sleep partly sitting up in a recliner for the
first 2 to 4 weeks after surgery.

You or your child should not use a backpack. Ask your surgeon how much weight
is safe for you or your child to lift or carry. The surgeon may tell you that
it should not be heavier than 5 or 10 pounds (2 to 4.5 kilograms).

You or your child should avoid vigorous activity and contact sports for 3
months. After that, activity is good because it improves growth of the chest
and strengthens the chest muscles.

Ask the surgeon when you or your child can return to work or school.

Most dressings (bandages) will be removed by the time you or your child leaves
the hospital. There may still be strips of tape on the incisions. Leave these
in place. They will fall off on their own. There may be a small amount of
drainage on the strips. This is normal.

Keep all follow-up appointments with the surgeon. This will likely be 2 weeks
after surgery. Other doctor visits will be needed while the metal bar or strut
is still in place. Another surgery will be done to remove the bar or struts.
This is usually done on an outpatient basis.

You or your child should wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace while the
metal bar or strut is in place. The surgeon can give you more information
about this.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the surgeon if you or your child has any of the following:

      * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
      * Increased swelling, pain, drainage, or bleeding from the wounds
      * Severe chest pain
      * Shortness of breath
      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Change in the way the chest looks since the surgery 

## References

Papadakis K, Shamberger RC. Congenital chest wall deformities. In: Selke FW,
del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM JR,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The
Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Read More

      * Pectus excavatum
      * Pectus excavatum repair

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cartilage Disorders
      * Chest Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

