Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007765.htm    
                                Description: Slipping rib syndrome refers to pain in your lower chest or upper abdomen which may be present when your lower ribs move a little more than normal.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Slipping rib syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007765.htm

# Slipping rib syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Slipping rib syndrome refers to pain in your lower chest or upper abdomen
which may be present when your lower ribs move a little more than normal.

Your ribs are the bones in your chest that wrap around your upper body. They
connect your breastbone to your spine.

## Causes

This syndrome usually occurs in 8th to 10th ribs (also known are false ribs)
at the lower part of your rib cage. These ribs are not connected to the chest
bone (sternum). Fibrous tissue (ligaments), connect these ribs to each other
to help keep them stable. The relative weakness in the ligaments can allow the
ribs to move a little more than normal and cause pain.

The condition can occur as a result of:

      * Injury to the chest while playing contact sports such as football, ice hockey, wrestling, and rugby
      * A fall or direct trauma to your chest 
      * Rapid twisting, pushing, or lifting motions, such as throwing a ball or swimming

When the ribs shift, they press on the surrounding muscles, nerves, and other
tissues. This causes pain and inflammation in the area.

Slipping rib syndrome can occur at any age, but it is more common in middle-
aged adults. Females may be more affected than males.

## Symptoms

The condition usually occurs on one side. Rarely, it may occur on both sides.
Symptoms include:

      * Severe pain in the lower chest or upper abdomen. The pain may come and go and get better with time.
      * A popping, clicking, or slipping sensation.
      * Pain when applying pressure to the affected area.
      * Coughing, laughing, lifting, twisting, and bending may make the pain worse.

## Exams and tests

The symptoms of slipping rib syndrome are similar to other medical conditions.
This makes the condition difficult to diagnose.

Your health care provider will take your medical history and ask about your
symptoms. You will be asked questions such as:

      * How did the pain start? Was there an injury?
      * What makes your pain worse?
      * Does anything help relieve the pain?

Your provider will perform a physical exam. The hooking maneuver test may be
done to confirm the diagnosis. In this test:

      * You will be asked to lie on your back.
      * Your provider will hook their fingers under the lower ribs and pull them outward.
      * Pain and a clicking sensation confirms the condition.

On the basis of your exam, an x-ray, ultrasound, MRI or blood tests may be
done to rule out other conditions.

## Treatment

The pain usually goes away in few weeks.

Treatment focuses on relieving the pain. If the pain is mild, you can use
ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) for pain relief. You
can buy these pain medicines at the store.

      * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * Take the dose as advised by the provider. DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle. Carefully read the warnings on the label before taking any medicine.

Your provider may also prescribe pain medicines to relieve pain.

You may be asked to:

      * Apply heat or ice at the site of pain
      * Avoid activities that makes the pain worse, such as heavy lifting, twisting, pushing, and pulling
      * Wear a chest binder to stabilize the ribs
      * Consult a physical therapist

For severe pain, your provider may give you a corticosteroid injection at the
site of pain.

If the pain persists, surgery may be done to remove the cartilage and lower
ribs, although it is not a commonly performed procedure.

## Outlook (prognosis)

The pain often goes away completely over time, although the pain may become
chronic. Injection or surgery may be required in some cases.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Difficulty breathing.
      * Injury during an injection may cause pneumothorax.

There are usually no long-term complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You should call your provider right away if you have:

      * An injury to your chest
      * Pain in your lower chest or upper abdomen
      * Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
      * Pain during daily activities

Call 911 if:

      * You have sudden crushing, squeezing, tightening, or pressure in your chest.
      * Pain spreads (radiates) to your jaw, left arm, or between your shoulder blades.
      * You have nausea, dizziness, sweating, a racing heart, or shortness of breath.

## Alternative Names

Interchondral subluxation; Clicking rib syndrome; Slipping-rib-cartilage
syndrome; Painful rib syndrome; Twelfth rib syndrome; Displaced ribs; Rib-tip
syndrome; Rib subluxation; Chest pain-slipping rib

## Images

      * ![Ribs and lung anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8907t.jpg)Ribs and lung anatomy

## References

Dixit S, Chang CJ. Thorax and abdominal injuries. In: Madden CC, Putukian M,
McCarty EC, Young CC, eds. _Netter's Sports Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

Kolinski JM. Chest pain. In: Kliegman RM, Lye PS, Bordini BJ, Toth H, Basel D,
eds. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 7.

McMahon, LE. Slipping rib syndrome: A review of evaluation, diagnosis and
treatment. _Seminars in Pediatric Surgery_. 2018;27(3):183-188.

Waldmann SD. Slipping rib syndrome. In: Waldmann SD, ed. _Atlas of Uncommon
Pain Syndromes._ 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 72.

Waldmann SD. The hooking maneuver test for slipping rib syndrome. In: Waldmann
SD, ed. _Physical Diagnosis of Pain: An Atlas of Signs and Symptoms._ 3rd ed.
St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 133.

## Review Date 12/9/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

