Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000081.htm    
                                Description: Mediastinitis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the chest area between the lungs (mediastinum). This area contains the heart, large blood vessels, windpipe (trachea), food tube (esophagus),    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mediastinitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000081.htm

# Mediastinitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mediastinitis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the chest area
between the lungs (mediastinum). This area contains the heart, large blood
vessels, windpipe (trachea), food tube (esophagus), thymus gland, lymph nodes,
and connective tissue.

## Causes

Mediastinitis usually results from an infection. It may occur suddenly
(acute), or it may develop slowly and get worse over time (chronic). It most
often occurs in person who recently had an upper endoscopy or chest surgery.

A person may have a tear in their esophagus that causes mediastinitis. Causes
of the tear include:

      * A procedure such as endoscopy
      * Forceful or constant vomiting
      * Trauma

Other causes of mediastinitis include:

      * A fungal infection called histoplasmosis
      * Radiation
      * Inflammation of the lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, or other tissues (sarcoidosis)
      * Tuberculosis
      * Breathing in anthrax
      * Cancer

Risk factors include:

      * Disease of the esophagus
      * Diabetes mellitus
      * Problems in the upper gastrointestinal tract
      * Recent chest surgery or endoscopy
      * Weakened immune system

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Chest pain
      * Chills
      * Fever
      * General discomfort
      * Shortness of breath

Signs of mediastinitis in people who have had recent surgery include:

      * Chest wall tenderness
      * Wound drainage
      * Unstable chest wall

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms
and medical history.

Tests may include:

      * Chest CT scan or MRI scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Ultrasound

The provider may insert a needle into the area of inflammation. This is to
remove a sample to send for gram stain and culture to determine the type of
infection, if present.

## Treatment

You may receive antibiotics if you have an infection.

You may need surgery to remove the area of inflammation if the blood vessels,
windpipe, or esophagus is blocked.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the cause and severity of the mediastinitis.

Mediastinitis after chest surgery is very serious. There is a risk of dying
from the condition.

## Possible Complications

Complications include the following:

      * Spread of the infection to the bloodstream, blood vessels, bones, heart, or lungs
      * Scarring

Scarring can be severe, especially when it is caused by chronic mediastinitis.
Scarring can interfere with heart or lung function.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have had open chest surgery and develop:

      * Chest pain
      * Chills
      * Drainage from the wound
      * Fever
      * Shortness of breath

If you have a lung infection or sarcoidosis and develop any of these symptoms,
see your provider right away.

## Prevention

To lessen the risk of developing mediastinitis related to chest surgery,
surgical wounds should be kept clean and dry after surgery.

Treating tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, or other conditions associated with
mediastinitis may prevent this complication.

## Alternative Names

Chest infection

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Cheng GS, Varghese TK, Park DR. Pneumomediastinum and mediastinitis. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
84.

Van Schooneveld TC, Rupp ME. Mediastinitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 87.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

