Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002949.htm    
                                Description: Pectus excavatum repair is surgery to correct pectus excavatum. This is a congenital (present at birth) deformity of the front of the chest wall that causes a sunken breastbone (sternum) and ribs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pectus excavatum repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002949.htm

# Pectus excavatum repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pectus excavatum repair is surgery to correct pectus excavatum. This is a
congenital (present at birth) deformity of the front of the chest wall that
causes a sunken breastbone (sternum) and ribs.

Pectus excavatum is also called funnel or sunken chest. It may worsen during
the teen years.

## Description

There are two types of surgery to repair this condition -- open surgery and
closed (minimally invasive) surgery. Either surgery is done while the child is
in a deep sleep and pain-free from general anesthesia.

Open surgery is more traditional. The surgery is done the following way:

      * The surgeon makes a cut (incision) across the front part of the chest.
      * The deformed cartilage is removed and the rib lining is left in place. This will allow the cartilage to grow back correctly.
      * A cut is then made in the breastbone, which is moved to the correct location. The surgeon may use a metal strut (support piece) to hold the breastbone in this normal position until it heals. Healing takes 3 to 12 months.
      * The surgeon may place a tube to drain fluids that build up in the area of repair.
      * At the end of surgery, the incision is closed.
      * The metal struts are removed in 6 to 12 months through a small cut in the skin under the arm. This procedure is usually done on an outpatient basis.

The second type of surgery is a closed method. It is used mostly for children.
No cartilage or bone is removed. The surgery is done the following way:

      * The surgeon makes two small incisions, one on each side of the chest. 
      * A small video camera called a thoracoscope is placed through one of the incisions. This allows the surgeon to view inside the chest.
      * A curved steel bar that has been shaped to fit the child is inserted through the incisions and placed under the breastbone. The purpose of the bar is to lift the breastbone. The bar is left in place for at least 2 years. This helps the breastbone grow properly.
      * At the end of surgery, the scope is removed and the incisions closed. 

Surgery may take 1 to 4 hours, depending on the procedure.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The most common reason for pectus excavatum repair is to improve the
appearance of the chest wall.

Sometimes the deformity is so severe that it causes chest pain and affects
breathing, largely in adults.

Surgery is mostly done on children who are 12 to 16 years old, but not before
age 6. It can also be done on adults in their early 20s.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

      * Injury to the heart
      * Lung collapse
      * Pain
      * Return of the deformity 

## Before the Procedure

A complete medical exam and medical tests are needed before the surgery. The
surgeon will order the following:

      * An electrocardiogram (ECG) and possibly an echocardiogram that shows how the heart is functioning
      * Pulmonary function tests to check for breathing problems
      * CT scan or MRI of the chest 

Tell the surgeon or nurse about:

      * Medicines your child is taking. Include drugs, herbs, vitamins, or any other supplements you bought without a prescription.
      * Allergies your child may have to medicine, latex, tape, or skin cleanser.

During the days before the surgery:

      * About 7 days before surgery, your child may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other blood thinning drugs.
      * Ask your surgeon or nurse which drugs your child should still take on the day of surgery. 

On the day of surgery:

      * Your child will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before surgery.
      * Give your child any drugs the surgeon told you to give with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time.
      * The surgeon will make sure your child has no signs of illness before surgery. If your child is ill, the surgery may be postponed. 

## After the Procedure

It is common for children to stay in the hospital for 3 to 7 days. How long
your child stays depends on how well the recovery is going.

Pain is common after the surgery. For the first few days, your child may
receive strong pain medicine in the vein (through an IV) or through a catheter
placed in the spine (an epidural). After that, pain is usually managed with
medicines taken by mouth.

Your child may have tubes in the chest around the surgical cuts. These tubes
drain extra fluid that collects from the procedure. The tubes will remain in
place until they stop draining, usually after a few days. The tubes are then
removed.

The day after surgery, your child will be encouraged to sit up, take deep
breaths, and get out of bed and walk. These activities will help healing.

At first, your child will not be able to bend, twist, or roll from side to
side. Activities will slowly be increased.

When your child can walk without help, they are probably ready to go home.
Before leaving the hospital, you will receive a prescription for pain medicine
for your child.

At home, follow any instructions for caring for your child.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The surgery usually leads to improvements in appearance, breathing, and
ability to exercise.

## Alternative Names

Funnel chest repair; Chest deformity repair; Sunken chest repair; Cobbler's
chest repair; Nuss repair; Ravitch repair

## Patient Instructions

      * Pectus excavatum - discharge
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum
      * ![Pectus excavatum repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7152t.jpg)Pectus excavatum repair - series

## References

Nuss D, Kelly RE. Congenital chest wall deformities. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy
JP, Ostlie DJ, eds. _Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 20.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The
Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

