Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002947.htm    
                                Description: A chest tube is a hollow, flexible tube placed into the chest. It acts as a drain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chest tube insertion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002947.htm

# Chest tube insertion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chest tube is a hollow, flexible tube placed into the chest. It acts as a
drain.

      * Chest tubes drain blood, fluid, or air from around your lungs, heart, or esophagus.
      * The tube around your lung is placed between your ribs and into the space between the inner lining and the outer lining of your chest cavity. This is called the pleural space. It is done to allow your lungs to fully expand.

## Description

When your chest tube is inserted, you will lie on your side or sit partly
upright, with one arm over your head.

      * Sometimes, you will receive medicine through a vein (intravenous, or IV) to make you relaxed and sleepy.
      * Your skin will be cleaned at the site of the planned insertion.
      * The chest tube is inserted through a 1-inch (2.5 centimeters) cut in your skin between your ribs. Then it is guided to the correct spot.
      * The tube is connected to a special canister. Suction is often used to help it drain. Other times, gravity alone will allow it to drain.
      * A stitch (suture) and tape keep the tube in place. 

After your chest tube insertion, you will have a chest x-ray to make sure the
tube is in the right place.

The chest tube most often stays in place until x-rays show that all the blood,
fluid, or air has drained from your chest and your lung has fully re-expanded.

The tube is easy to remove when it is no longer needed.

Some people may have a chest tube inserted that is guided by x-ray,
computerized tomography (CT), or ultrasound. If you have major lung or heart
surgery, a chest tube will be placed while you are under general anesthesia
(asleep) during your surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Chest tubes are used to treat conditions that cause a lung to collapse. Some
of these conditions are:

      * Surgery or trauma in the chest
      * Air leaks from inside the lung into the chest (pneumothorax)
      * Fluid buildup in the chest (called a pleural effusion) due to bleeding into the chest, buildup of fatty fluid, abscess or pus buildup in the lung or the chest, or heart failure
      * A tear in the esophagus (the tube that allows food to go from the mouth to the stomach)

## Risks

Some risks from the insertion procedure are:

      * Bleeding or infection where the tube is inserted
      * Improper placement of the tube (into the tissues, abdomen, or too far in the chest)
      * Injury to the lung 
      * Injury to organs near the tube, such as the spleen, liver, stomach, or diaphragm

## After the Procedure

You will most likely stay in the hospital until your chest tube is removed. In
some cases, a person may go home with a chest tube.

While the chest tube is in place, your health care provider will carefully
check for air leaks, breathing problems, and if you need oxygen. They will
also make sure the tube stays in place. Your provider will tell you whether it
is OK to get up and walk around or sit in a chair.

What you will need to do:

      * Breathe deeply and cough often (your nurse will teach you how to do this). Deep breathing and coughing will help re-expand your lung and help with drainage.
      * Be careful there are no kinks in your tube. The drainage system should always sit upright and be placed below your lungs. If it is not, the fluid or air will not drain and your lungs can't re-expand. 

Get help right away if:

      * Your chest tube comes out or shifts.
      * The tubes become disconnected.
      * You suddenly have a harder time breathing or have more pain. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the reason a chest tube is inserted. Pneumothorax most
often improves, but sometimes surgery is needed to correct the underlying
problem. This may be performed through a scope or may require a large incision
depending on your underlying condition. In cases of infection, the person
improves when the infection is treated, although scarring of the lining of the
lung can sometimes occur (fibrothorax). This may require surgery to correct
the problem.

## Alternative Names

Chest drainage tube insertion; Insertion of tube into chest; Tube
thoracostomy; Pericardial drain

## Images

      * ![Chest tube insertion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9968t.jpg)Chest tube insertion
      * ![Chest tube insertion - series - Pleural cavity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7046t.jpg)Chest tube insertion - series

## References

Light RW, Lee YCG. Pneumothorax, chylothorax, hemothorax, and fibrothorax. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
81.

Margolis AM, Kirsch TD. Tube thoracostomy. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

Watson GA, Harbrecht BG. Chest tube placement, care, and removal. In: Vincent
J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap E12.

## Review Date 4/3/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Collapsed
Lung](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CollapsedLung_thumb.jpg)Collapsed Lung
_Read more_

![Critical
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CriticalCare_thumb.jpg)Critical Care
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

