Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003109.htm    
                                Description: Ribcage pain includes any pain or discomfort in the area of the ribs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ribcage pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003109.htm

# Ribcage pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ribcage pain includes any pain or discomfort in the area of the ribs.

## Considerations

With a broken rib, the pain is worse when bending and twisting the body. This
movement does not cause the pain in someone who has pleurisy (swelling of the
lining of the lungs) or muscle spasms.

## Causes

Ribcage pain may be caused by any of the following:

      * Bruised, cracked, or fractured rib
      * Inflammation of cartilage near the breastbone (costochondritis)
      * Osteoporosis
      * Pleurisy (the pain is worse when breathing deeply) 

## Home Care

Rest and not moving the area (immobilization) are the best cures for a ribcage
fracture.

Follow your health care provider's instructions for treating the cause of
ribcage pain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you do not know the cause of the
pain, or if it does not go away.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider may perform a physical examination. You'll likely be asked about
your symptoms, such as when the pain started, its location, the kind of pain
you're having, and what makes it worse.

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Bone scan (if there is a known history of cancer or it is highly suspected)
      * Chest x-ray

Your provider may prescribe treatment for your ribcage pain. Treatment depends
on the cause.

## Alternative Names

Pain - ribcage

## Images

      * ![Rib](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1724t.jpg)Rib

## References

Reynolds JH, Jones H. Thoracic trauma and related topics. In: Adam A, Dixon
AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 17.

Tzelepis GE, McCool FD. The respiratory system and chest wall diseases. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
98.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

