Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000164.htm    
                                Description: All but your lowest 2 ribs are connected to your breastbone by cartilage. This cartilage can become inflamed and cause pain. This condition is called costochondritis. It is a common cause of chest pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Costochondritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000164.htm

# Costochondritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

All but your lowest 2 ribs are connected to your breastbone by cartilage. This
cartilage can become inflamed and cause pain. This condition is called
costochondritis. It is a common cause of chest pain.

## Causes

There is often no known cause of costochondritis. But it may be caused by:

      * Chest injury
      * Hard exercise or heavy lifting
      * Viral infections, such as respiratory infections
      * Strain from coughing
      * Infections after surgery or from IV drug use 
      * Some types of arthritis

## Symptoms

The most common symptoms of costochondritis are pain and tenderness in the
chest. You may feel:

      * Sharp pain at the front of your chest wall, which may move to your back or stomach
      * Increased pain when you take a deep breath or cough
      * Tenderness when you press the area where the rib joins the breastbone
      * Less pain when you stop moving and breathe quietly

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take your medical history and do a physical
exam. The area where the ribs meet the breastbone is checked. If this area is
tender and sore, costochondritis is the most likely cause of your chest pain.

A chest x-ray may be done if your symptoms are severe or do not improve with
treatment.

Your provider may also order tests to rule out other conditions, such as a
heart attack.

## Treatment

Costochondritis most often goes away on its own in a few days or weeks. It can
also take up to a few months. Treatment focuses on relieving the pain.

      * Apply hot or cold compresses.
      * Avoid activities that make the pain worse.

Pain medicines, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve), may
help to ease pain and swelling. You can buy these without a prescription.

      * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * Take the dose as advised by the provider. DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle. Carefully read the warnings on the label before taking any medicine.

You may also take acetaminophen (Tylenol) instead, if your provider tells you
it is safe to do so. People with liver disease should not take this medicine.

If your pain is severe, your provider may prescribe stronger pain medicine.

In some cases, your provider may recommend physical therapy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Costochondritis pain often goes away in a few days or weeks.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or go to your local emergency room right away if you have chest pain.
The pain of costochondritis can be similar to the pain of a heart attack.

If you have already been diagnosed with costochondritis, call your provider if
you have any of the following symptoms:

      * Trouble breathing
      * A high fever
      * Any signs of infection such as pus, redness, or swelling around your ribs
      * Pain that continues or gets worse after taking pain medicine
      * Sharp pain with every breath

## Prevention

Because the cause is often unknown, there is no known way to prevent
costochondritis.

## Alternative Names

Chest wall pain; Costosternal syndrome; Costosternal chondrodynia; Chest pain
- costochondritis

## Patient Instructions

      * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems

## Images

      * ![Ribs and lung anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8907t.jpg)Ribs and lung anatomy

## References

Imamura M, Cassius DA. Costosternal syndrome. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds.Â _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation._ Â 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 100.

Imamura M, Imamura ST. Tietze syndrome. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD,
eds.Â _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 116.

Shrestha A. Costochondritis. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2019._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:388-388.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Chest Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestPain_thumb.jpg)Chest Pain
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

