Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003320.htm    
                                Description: Pectus excavatum is a medical term that describes an abnormal formation of the rib cage that gives the chest a caved-in or sunken appearance.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pectus excavatum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003320.htm

# Pectus excavatum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pectus excavatum is a medical term that describes an abnormal formation of the
rib cage that gives the chest a caved-in or sunken appearance.

## Considerations

Pectus excavatum occurs in a baby who is developing in the womb. It can also
develop in a baby after birth. The condition can be mild or severe.

Pectus excavatum is due to too much growth of the connective tissue that joins
the ribs to the breastbone (sternum). This causes the sternum to grow inward.
As a result, there is a depression in the chest over the sternum, which may
appear quite deep.

If the condition is severe, the heart and lungs can be affected. Also, the way
the chest looks may cause emotional stress for the child.

## Causes

The exact cause is unknown. Pectus excavatum occurs by itself. Or there may be
a family history of the condition. Other medical problems linked with this
condition include:

      * Marfan syndrome (connective tissue disease)
      * Noonan syndrome (disorder that causes many parts of the body to develop abnormally)
      * Poland syndrome (disorder that causes muscles to not develop fully or at all)
      * Rickets (softening and weakening of the bones)
      * Scoliosis (abnormal curving of the spine) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you or your child has any of the
following:

      * Chest pain
      * Trouble breathing
      * Feelings of depression or anger about the condition
      * Feeling tired, even when not being active

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical examination. An infant with pectus
excavatum may have other symptoms and signs that, when taken together, define
a specific condition known as a syndrome.

The provider will also ask about medical history, such as:

      * When was the problem first noticed?
      * Is it getting better, worse, or staying the same?
      * Do other family members have an unusual-shaped chest?
      * What other symptoms are there? 

Tests may be done to rule out suspected disorders. These tests may include:

      * Chromosome studies
      * Enzyme assays
      * Metabolic studies
      * X-rays
      * CT scan 

Tests may also be done to find out how severely the lungs and heart are
affected.

This condition can be surgically repaired. Surgery is generally advised if
there are other health problems, such as trouble breathing. Surgery may also
be done to improve the appearance of the chest. Talk to your provider about
treatment options.

## Alternative Names

Funnel chest; Cobbler's chest; Sunken chest

## Patient Instructions

      * Pectus excavatum - discharge

## Images

      * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum
      * ![Ribcage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8787t.jpg)Ribcage
      * ![Pectus excavatum repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7152t.jpg)Pectus excavatum repair - series

## References

Boas SR. Skeletal diseases influencing pulmonary function. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 445.

Gottlieb LJ, Reid RR, Slidell MB. Pediatric chest and trunk defects. In:
Rodriguez ED, Losee JE, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3:
Craniofacial, Head and Neck Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

Martin L, Hackam D. Congenital chest wall deformities. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2017:891-898.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

