Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000539.htm    
                                Description: A rib fracture is a crack or break in one or more of your rib bones.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rib fracture - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000539.htm

# Rib fracture - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A rib fracture is a crack or break in one or more of your rib bones.

Your ribs are the bones in your chest that wrap around your upper body. They
connect your breastbone to your spine.

## More About Your Injury

A rib fracture can be very painful because your ribs move when you breathe,
cough, and move your upper body.

The ribs in the middle of the chest are the ones that break most often.

Rib fractures often occur with other chest and organ injuries. So, your health
care providers will also check to see if you have any other injuries.

## What to Expect

Healing takes at least 6 weeks.

If you injure other body organs, you may need to stay in the hospital.
Otherwise, you can heal at home. Most people with broken ribs do not need
surgery.

In the emergency room, you may have received a strong medicine (such as a
nerve block or narcotics) if you were in severe pain.

You will not have a belt or a bandage around your chest because these would
keep your ribs from moving when you breathe or cough. This may lead to a lung
infection (pneumonia).

## Pain Relief

Apply an ice pack 20 minutes of every hour you are awake for the first 2 days,
then 10 to 20 minutes 3 times daily as needed to reduce pain and swelling.
Wrap the ice pack in a cloth before applying to the injured area.

You may need prescription pain medicines (narcotics) to keep your pain under
control while your bones heal.

      * Take these medicines on the schedule your provider prescribed.
      * DO NOT drink alcohol, drive, or operate heavy machinery while you are taking these medicines.
      * To avoid becoming constipated, drink more fluids, eat high-fiber foods, and use stool softeners.
      * To avoid nausea or vomiting, try taking your pain medicines with food. 

If your pain is not severe, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

      * These should be avoided for the first 24 hours after your injury since they may lead to bleeding.
      * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) may also be used for pain by most people.

Tell your provider about any other medicines you are taking as drug
interactions may occur.

## Activity

To help prevent a collapsed lung or lung infection, do slow deep-breathing and
gentle coughing exercises every 2 hours. Holding a pillow or blanket against
your injured rib can make these less painful. You may need to take your pain
medicine first. Your provider may tell you to use a device called a spirometer
to help with the breathing exercises. These exercises help prevent a partial
lung collapse and pneumonia.

It is important to stay active. DO NOT rest in bed all day. Your provider will
talk with you about when you can return to:

      * Your everyday activities
      * Work, which will depend on the type of job you have
      * Sports or other high impact activity 

While you heal, avoid movements that put painful pressure on your ribs. These
include doing crunches and pushing, pulling, or lifting heavy objects.

## Follow-up

Your provider will make sure you are doing your exercises and that your pain
is under control so that you can be active.

There is usually no need for taking x-rays as you heal, unless you develop
fever, cough, increasing pain or difficulty breathing.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have:

      * Pain that does not allow deep breathing or coughing despite using pain relievers
      * Fever
      * Cough or increase in mucus that you cough up
      * Shortness of breath
      * Side effects of pain medicine such as nausea, vomiting, or constipation, or allergic reactions, such as skin rashes, facial swelling, or difficulty breathing

People with asthma or emphysema are at increased risk of developing
complications from a rib fracture, such as breathing problems or infections.

## Alternative Names

Broken rib - aftercare

## References

Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA. Scapula and rib fractures. In:
Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic
Science, Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 50.

Raja AS. Thoracic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 4/8/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Chest Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

