Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003321.htm    
                                Description: Pectus carinatum is present when the chest protrudes over the sternum. It is often described as giving the person a bird-like appearance.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pectus carinatum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003321.htm

# Pectus carinatum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pectus carinatum is present when the chest protrudes over the sternum. It is
often described as giving the person a bird-like appearance.

## Considerations

Pectus carinatum may occur alone or along with other genetic disorders or
syndromes. The condition causes the sternum to protrude. There is a narrow
depression along the sides of the chest. This gives the chest a bowed-out
appearance similar to that of a pigeon.

People with pectus carinatum generally develop a normal heart and lungs.
However, the deformity may prevent these from functioning as well as they
could. There is some evidence that pectus carinatum may prevent complete
emptying of air from the lungs in children. These young people may have less
stamina, even if they do not recognize it.

Pectus deformities can also have an impact on a child's self-image. Some
children live happily with pectus carinatum. For others, the shape of the
chest can damage their self-image and self-confidence. These feelings may
interfere with forming connections to others.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Congenital pectus carinatum (present at birth)
      * Trisomy 18
      * Trisomy 21
      * Homocystinuria
      * Marfan syndrome
      * Morquio syndrome
      * Multiple lentigines syndrome
      * Osteogenesis imperfecta

## Home Care

No specific home care is needed for this condition.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice that your child's chest seems
abnormal in shape.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about theÂ child's
medical history and symptoms. Questions may include:

      * When did you first notice this? Was it present at birth, or did it develop as the child grew?
      * Is it getting better, worse, or staying the same?
      * What other symptoms are present?

Tests that may be done include:

      * Lung function testingÂ to measure how well the heart and lungs are performing
      * Lab tests such as chromosome studies, enzyme assays, x-rays, or metabolic studies

A brace may be used to treat children and young adolescents. Surgery is
sometimes done. Some people have gained improved exercise ability and better
lung function after surgery.

## Alternative Names

Pigeon breast; Pigeon chest

## Images

      * ![Ribcage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8787t.jpg)Ribcage
      * ![Bowed chest \(pigeon breast\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9011t.jpg)Bowed chest (pigeon breast)

## References

Boas SR. Skeletal diseases influencing pulmonary function. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 417.

Graham JM, Sanchez-Lara PA. Pectus excavatum and pectus carinatum. In: Graham
JM, Sanchez-Lara PA, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human
Deformation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.Â

## Review Date 9/5/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

