Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000420.htm    
                                Description: A migraine is a common type of headache. It may occur with symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, or sensitivity to light. Most people feel a throbbing pain on only one side of their head during a migraine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing migraines at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000420.htm

# Managing migraines at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A migraine is a common type of headache. It may occur with symptoms such as
nausea, vomiting, or sensitivity to light. Most people feel a throbbing pain
on only one side of their head during a migraine.

Some people who get migraines have warning signs, called an aura, before the
actual headache begins. An aura is a group of symptoms that includes vision
changes. An aura is a warning sign that a bad headache is coming.

Migraine headaches can be triggered by certain foods. The most common are:

      * Any processed, fermented, pickled, or marinated foods, as well as foods that contain monosodium glutamate (MSG)
      * Baked goods, chocolate, nuts, and dairy products
      * Fruits (such as avocado, banana, and citrus fruit)
      * Meats containing sodium nitrates, such as bacon, hot dogs, salami, and cured meats
      * Red wine, aged cheese, smoked fish, chicken liver, figs, and certain beans 

Alcohol, stress, hormonal changes, skipping meals, lack of sleep, certain
odors or perfumes, loud noises or bright lights, exercise, and cigarette
smoking may also trigger a migraine.

## When You Get a Migraine

Try to treat your symptoms right away. This may help make the headache less
severe. When migraine symptoms begin:

      * Drink water to avoid dehydration, especially if you have vomited
      * Rest in a quiet, darkened room
      * Place a cool cloth on your head 

Over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin,
are often helpful when your migraine is mild.

Your health care provider may have prescribed medicines to stop a migraine.
These drugs come in different forms. They may come as a nasal spray, rectal
suppository, or injection instead of pills. Other medicines can treat nausea
and vomiting.

Follow your provider's instructions about how to take all of your medicines.
Rebound headaches are headaches that keep coming back. They can occur from
overuse of pain medicine. If you take pain medicine more than 3 days a week on
a regular basis, you can develop rebound headaches.

## Preventing Migraine Headaches

A headache diary can help you identify your headache triggers. When you get a
headache, write down:

      * Day and time the pain began
      * What you ate and drank over the past 24 hours
      * How much you slept
      * What you were doing and where you were right before the pain started
      * How long the headache lasted and what made it stop 

Review your diary with your provider to identify triggers or a pattern to your
headaches. This can help you and your provider create a treatment plan.
Knowing your triggers can help you avoid them.

Lifestyle changes that may help include:

      * Avoid triggers that seem to bring on a migraine headache.
      * Get regular sleep and exercise.
      * Slowly decrease the amount of caffeine you drink every day.
      * Learn and practice stress management. Some people find relaxation exercises and meditation helpful. 

If you have frequent migraines, your provider may prescribe medicine to reduce
the number of them. You need to take this medicine every day for it to be
effective. Your provider may have you try more than one drug before deciding
which works best for you.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call 911 if:

      * You are experiencing "the worst headache of your life."
      * You have speech, vision, or movement problems or loss of balance, especially if you have not had these symptoms with a headache before.
      * A headache starts suddenly. 

Schedule an appointment or call your provider if:

      * Your headache patterns or pain changes.
      * Treatments that once worked are no longer help.
      * You have side effects from your medicine.
      * You are pregnant or could become pregnant. Some medicines should not be taken during pregnancy.
      * You need to take pain medicines more than 3 days a week.
      * You are taking birth control pills and have migraine headaches.
      * Your headaches are more severe when lying down. 

## Alternative Names

Headache - migraine - self-care; Vascular headache - self-care

## Images

      * ![Migraine cause](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19225t.jpg)Migraine cause
      * ![CT scan of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19237t.jpg)CT scan of the brain
      * ![Migraine headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18146t.jpg)Migraine headache

## References

Becker WJ. Acute migraine treatment in adults. _Headache_. 2015;55(6):778-793.
PMID: 25877672 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25877672.

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.

Marmura MJ, Silberstein SD, Schwedt TJ. The acute treatment of migraine in
adults: the American Headache Society evidence assessment of migraine
pharmacotherapies. _Headache_. 2015;55(1):3-20. PMID: 25600718
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25600718.

Silberstein SD. Headache management. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, We CL, Turk
DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 30.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Migraine

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

