Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001453.htm    
                                Description: A congenital pigmented or melanocytic nevus is a dark-colored, often hairy, patch of skin. It is present at birth or appears in the first year of life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Giant congenital nevus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001453.htm

# Giant congenital nevus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A congenital pigmented or melanocytic nevus is a dark-colored, often hairy,
patch of skin. It is present at birth or appears in the first year of life.

A giant congenital nevus is smaller in infants and children, but it usually
continues to grow as the child grows. A giant pigmented nevus is larger than
15 inches (40 centimeters) once it stops growing.

## Causes

These marks are thought to be caused by problems with melanocytes that don't
spread evenly as a baby grows in the womb. Melanocytes are the skin cells that
produce melanin, which gives skin its color. A nevus has an abnormally large
amount of melanocytes.

The condition is thought to be caused by a gene defect.

The condition may occur with:

      * Growth of fatty tissue cells
      * Neurofibromatosis (an inherited disease involving changes in skin pigment and other symptoms)
      * Other nevi (moles)
      * Spina bifida (a birth defect in the spine)
      * Involvement of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord when the nevus affects a very large area

Smaller congenital pigmented or melanocytic nevi are common in children and do
not cause problems most of the time. Larger or giant nevi are rare.

## Symptoms

A nevus will appear as a dark-colored patch with any of the following:

      * Brown to bluish-black color
      * Hair
      * Regular or uneven borders
      * Smaller affectedÂ areas near the larger nevus (maybe)
      * Smooth, irregular, or wart-like skin surface 

Nevi are commonly found on the upper or lower parts of the back or the
abdomen. They may also be found on the:

      * Arms
      * Legs
      * Mouth
      * Mucus membranes
      * Palms or soles 

## Exams and Tests

You should have all birthmarks looked at by a health care provider. A skin
biopsy may be needed to check for cancer cells.

An MRI of the brain might be done if the nevus is over the spine. A giant
nevus on the spine may be linked to brain problems.

Your provider will measure the dark skin area every year and may take pictures
to check if the spot is getting larger.

## Treatment

You will need to have regular exams to check for skin cancer.

Surgery to remove the nevus can be done for cosmetic reasons or if your
provider thinks it may become skin cancer. Skin grafting is also done when
needed. Larger nevi may need to be removed in several stages.

Lasers and dermabrasion (rubbing them off) can also be used to improve
appearance. These treatments may not remove the whole birthmark, so it may be
harder to detect skin cancer (melanoma). Talk to your doctor about the pros
and cons of surgery for you.

Treatment may be helpful if the birthmark causes emotional problems because of
how it looks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Skin cancer may develop in some people with large or giant nevi. The cancer
risk is higher for nevi that are larger in size. However, it isn't known if
removing the nevus reduces that risk.

## Possible Complications

Having a giant nevus may lead to:

      * Depression and other emotional problems if the nevi affect appearance
      * Skin cancer (melanoma) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is usually diagnosed at birth. Talk to your child's provider if
your child has a large pigmented area anywhere on their skin.

## Alternative Names

Congenital giant pigmented nevus; Giant hairy nevus; Giant pigmented nevus;
Bathing trunk nevus; Congenital melanocytic nevus - large

## Images

      * ![Congenital nevus on the abdomen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2901t.jpg)Congenital nevus on the abdomen

## References

Habif TP. Nevi and malignant melanoma. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 22.

Hosler GA, Patterson JW. Lentigines, nevi, and melanomas. In: Patterson JW,
ed. _Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
32.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Moles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Moles_thumb.jpg)Moles _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

