Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000544.htm    
                                Description: Trimester means &quot;3 months.&quot; A normal pregnancy lasts about 9 months and has 3 trimesters.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prenatal care in your first trimester

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000544.htm

# Prenatal care in your first trimester

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trimester means "3 months." A normal pregnancy lasts about 9 months and has 3
trimesters.

The first trimester starts when your baby is conceived. It continues through
week 14 of your pregnancy. Your health care provider may talk about your
pregnancy in weeks, rather than in months or trimesters.

## Your First Prenatal Visit

You should schedule your first prenatal visit soon after you learn that you
are pregnant. Your doctor or midwife will:

      * Draw your blood
      * Perform a full pelvic exam
      * Do a Pap smear and cultures to look for infections or problems

Your doctor or midwife will listen for your baby's heartbeat, but may not be
able to hear it. Most often, the heartbeat cannot be heard or seen on
ultrasound until at least 6 to 7 weeks.

During this first visit, your doctor or midwife will ask you questions about:

      * Your overall health
      * Any health problems you have
      * Past pregnancies
      * Medicines, herbs, or vitamins you take
      * Whether or not you exercise
      * Whether you smoke or drink alcohol
      * Whether you or your partner have genetic disorders or health problems that run in your family

You will have many visits to talk about a birthing plan. You can also discuss
it with your doctor or midwife at your first visit.

The first visit will also be a good time to talk about:

      * Eating healthy, exercising, and making lifestyle changes while you are pregnant
      * Common symptoms during pregnancy such as fatigue, heartburn, and varicose veins
      * How to manage morning sickness
      * What to do about vaginal bleeding during early pregnancy

You will also be given prenatal vitamins with iron if you are not already
taking them.

## Follow-up Prenatal Visits

In your first trimester, you will have a prenatal visit every month. The
visits may be quick, but they are still important. It is OK to bring your
partner or labor coach with you.

During your visits, your doctor or midwife will:

      * Weigh you.
      * Check your blood pressure.
      * Check for fetal heart sounds.
      * Take a urine sample to test for sugar or protein in your urine. If either of these is found, it could mean that you have gestational diabetes or high blood pressure caused by pregnancy. 

At the end of each visit, your doctor or midwife will tell you what changes to
expect before your next visit. Tell your doctor if you have any problems or
concerns. It is OK to talk about them even if you do not feel that they are
important or related to your pregnancy.

## Lab Tests

At your first visit, your doctor or midwife will draw blood for a group of
tests known as the prenatal panel. These tests are done to find problems or
infections early in the pregnancy.

This panel of tests includes, but is not limited to:

      * A complete blood count (CBC)
      * Blood typing (including Rh screen)
      * Rubella viral antigen screen (this shows how immune you are to the disease Rubella)
      * Hepatitis panel (this shows if you are positive for hepatitis A, B, or C)
      * Syphilis test
      * HIV test (this test shows if you are positive for the virus that causes AIDS)
      * Cystic fibrosis screen (this test shows if you are a carrier for cystic fibrosis)
      * A urine analysis and culture 

## Ultrasounds

An ultrasound is a simple, painless procedure. A wand that uses sound waves
will be placed on your belly. The sound waves will let your doctor or midwife
see the baby.

You should have an ultrasound done in the first trimester to get an idea of
your due date.

## Genetic Testing

All women are offered genetic testing to screen for birth defects and genetic
problems, such as Down syndrome or brain and spinal column defects.

      * If your doctor thinks that you need any of these tests, talk about which ones will be best for you.
      * Be sure to ask about what the results could mean for you and your baby.
      * A genetic counselor can help you understand your risks and tests results.
      * There are many options now for genetic testing. Some of these tests carry some risks to your baby, while others do not.

Women who may be at higher risk for these genetic problems include:

      * Women who have had a fetus with genetic problems in earlier pregnancies
      * Women, age 35 years or older
      * Women with a strong family history of inherited birth defects

In one test, your provider can use an ultrasound to measure the back of the
baby's neck. This is called nuchal translucency.

      * A blood test is also done.
      * Together, these 2 measures will tell if the baby is at risk for having Down syndrome.
      * If a test called a quadruple screen is done in the second trimester, the results of both tests are more accurate than doing either test alone. This is called integrated screening.

Another test, called chorionic villus sampling (CVS), can detect Down syndrome
and other genetic disorders as early as 10 weeks into a pregnancy.

A newer test, called cell free DNA testing, looks for small pieces of your
baby's genes in a sample of blood from the mother. This test is newer, but
offers a lot of promise for accuracy without risks of miscarriage.

There are other tests that may be done in the second trimester.

## When to Call Your Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have bleeding or cramping.
      * You have increased discharge or a discharge with odor.
      * You have a fever, chills, or pain when passing urine.
      * You have any questions or concerns about your health or your pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy care - first trimester

## References

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Hobel CJ, Williams J. Antepartum care. In: Hacker N, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. Obstetrics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prenatal Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

