Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007214.htm    
                                Description: Getting good care before, during, and after your pregnancy is very important. It can help your baby grow and develop and keep you both healthy. It is the best way to be sure your little one gets a head    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pregnancy care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007214.htm

# Pregnancy care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting good care before, during, and after your pregnancy is very important.
It can help your baby grow and develop and keep you both healthy. It is the
best way to be sure your little one gets a head start on a healthy life.

PRENATAL CARE

Good prenatal care includes good nutrition and health habits before and during
pregnancy. Ideally, you should talk with your health care provider before you
start trying to become pregnant. Here are some things you will need to do:

 **Choose a provider:** You will want to choose a provider for your pregnancy
and childbirth. This provider will provide prenatal care, delivery, and
postpartum services.

 **Take folic acid:** If you are considering becoming pregnant, or are
pregnant, you should take a supplement with at least 400 micrograms (0.4 mg)
of folic acid every day. Taking folic acid will decrease the risk for certain
birth defects. Prenatal vitamins almost always contain more than 400
micrograms (0.4 mg) of folic acid per capsule or tablet.

You should also:

      * Talk with your provider about any medicines you take. This includes over-the-counter medicines. You should only take medicines your provider says are safe to take while you are pregnant.
      * Avoid all alcohol and recreational drug use and limit caffeine.
      * Quit smoking, if you smoke. 

**Go for prenatal visits and tests:** You will see your provider many times
during your pregnancy for prenatal care. The number of visits and types of
exams you receive will change, depending on where you are in your pregnancy:

      * First trimester care
      * Second trimester care
      * Third trimester care

Talk with your provider about the different tests you may receive during your
pregnancy. These tests can help your provider see how your baby is developing
and if there are any problems with your pregnancy. These tests may include:

      * Ultrasound tests to see how your baby is growing and help establish aÂ due date
      * Glucose testsÂ to check for gestational diabetes
      * Blood test to check for normal fetal DNA in your blood
      * Fetal echocardiography to check the baby's heart
      * Amniocentesis to check for birth defects and genetic problems
      * Nuchal translucency test to check for problems with the baby's genes
      * Tests to check for sexually transmitted disease
      * Blood type testing such as Rh and ABO
      * Blood tests for anemia
      * Blood tests to follow any chronic illness you had before becoming pregnantÂ 

Depending on your family history, you may choose to screen for genetic
problems. There are many things to think about before doing genetic testing.
Your provider can help you decide if this is right for you.

If you have a high-risk pregnancy, you may need to see your provider more
often and have additional tests.

WHAT TO EXPECT DURING PREGNANCY

Your provider will talk with you about how to manage common pregnancy
complaints such as:

      * Morning sickness
      * Backaches, leg pain, and other aches and pains during pregnancy
      * Problems sleeping
      * Skin and hair changes
      * Vaginal bleeding in early pregnancy

No two pregnancies are the same. Some women have few or mild symptoms during
pregnancy. Many women work their full term and travel while they are pregnant.
Others may have to cut back on their hours or stop working. Some women require
bed rest for a few days or possibly weeks to continue with a healthy
pregnancy.

POSSIBLE PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS

Pregnancy is a complex process. While many women have normal pregnancies,
complications can occur. However, having a complication does not mean you will
not have a healthy baby. It means your provider will monitor you closely and
take special care of you and your baby during the remainder of your term.

Common complications include:

      * Diabetes during pregnancy (gestational diabetes).
      * High blood pressure during pregnancy (preeclampsia). Your provider will talk with you about how to care for yourself if you have preeclampsia.
      * Premature or preterm changes in the cervix.
      * Problems with the placenta. It may cover the cervix, pull away from the womb, or not work as well as it should.
      * Vaginal bleeding.
      * Early labor.
      * Your baby is not growing well.
      * Your baby has medical problems. 

It can be scary to think about possible problems. But it is important to be
aware so you can tell your provider if you notice unusual symptoms.

LABOR AND DELIVERY

Talk with your provider about what to expect during labor and delivery. You
can make your wishes known by creating a birth plan. Talk with your provider
about what to include in your birth plan. You may want to include things like:

      * How you want to manage pain during labor, including whether to have an epidural block
      * How you feel about episiotomy
      * What would happen if you need a C-section
      * How you feel about forceps delivery or vacuum-assisted delivery
      * Who you want with you during delivery 

It is also a good idea to make a list of things to bring to the hospital. Pack
a bag ahead of time so you have it ready to go when you go into labor.

As you get close to your due date, you will notice certain changes. It is not
always easy to tell when you will go into labor. Your provider can tell you
when it is time to come in for an exam or go to the hospital for delivery.

Talk with your provider about what happens if you pass your due date.
Depending on your age and risk factors, your provider may need to induce labor
around 39 to 42 weeks.

Once labor begins, you can use a number of strategies to get through labor.

WHAT TO EXPECT AFTER YOUR CHILD IS BORN

Having a baby is an exciting and wonderful event. It is also hard work for the
mother. You will need to take care of yourself in the first few weeks after
delivery. The type of care you need depends on how you delivered your baby.

If you had a vaginal delivery, you will likely spend 1 to 2 days in the
hospital before you go home.

If you had a C-section, you will stay in the hospital for 2 to 3 days before
going home. Your provider will explain how to care for yourself at home as you
heal.

If you are able to breastfeed, there are many benefits to breastfeeding. It
can also help you lose your pregnancy weight.

Be patient with yourself as you learn to breastfeed. It can take 2 to 3 weeks
to learn the skill of nursing your baby. There is a lot to learn, such as:

      * How to care for your breasts
      * Positioning your baby for breastfeeding
      * How to overcome any breastfeeding problems
      * Breast milk pumping and storage
      * Breastfeeding skin and nipple changes
      * Timing of breastfeeding

If you need help, there are many resources for new mothers.

WHEN TO CALL YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER

Call your provider if you are pregnant or think you are pregnant and:

      * You take medicines for diabetes, thyroid disease, seizures, or high blood pressure
      * You are not getting prenatal care
      * You cannot manage common pregnancy complaints without medicines
      * You might have been exposed to a sexually transmitted infection, chemicals, radiation, or unusual pollutants 

Call your provider immediately if you are pregnant and you:

      * Have a fever, chills, or painful urination
      * Vaginal bleeding
      * Severe belly pain
      * Physical or severe emotional trauma
      * Have your water break (membranes rupture)
      * Are in the last half of your pregnancy and notice the baby is moving less or not at all 

## References

Cline M, Young N. Antepartum care. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2020._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier 2020:e. 1-e 8.

Greenberg JM, Haberman B, Narendran V, Nathan AT, Schibler K. Neonatal
morbidities of prenatal and perinatal origin. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore
TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 73.

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Magowan BA, Owen P, Thomson A. Early pregnancy care. In: Magowan BA, Owen P,
Thomson A, eds. _Clinical Obstetrics and Gynaecology._ 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Ltd.; 2019:chap 6.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. Obstetrics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prenatal
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalCare_thumb.jpg)Prenatal Care
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

