Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000557.htm    
                                Description: Trimester means 3 months. A normal pregnancy is around 9 months and has 3 trimesters.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prenatal care in your second trimester

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000557.htm

# Prenatal care in your second trimester

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trimester means 3 months. A normal pregnancy is around 9 months and has 3
trimesters.

Your health care provider may talk about your pregnancy in weeks, rather than
months or trimesters. The second trimester begins at week 14 and goes through
week 28.

## Routine Prenatal Visits

In your second trimester, you will have a prenatal visit every month. The
visits may be quick, but they are still important. It is OK to bring your
partner or labor coach with you.

Visits during this trimester will be a good time to talk about:

      * Common symptoms during pregnancy, such as fatigue, heartburn, varicose veins, and other common problems
      * Dealing with back pain and other aches and pains during pregnancy

During your visits, your provider will:

      * Weigh you.
      * Measure your abdomen to see if your baby is growing as expected.
      * Check your blood pressure.
      * Sometimes take a urine sample to test for sugar or protein in your urine. If either of these is found, it could mean you have gestational diabetes or high blood pressure caused by pregnancy. 

At the end of each visit, your provider will tell you what changes to expect
before your next visit. Tell your provider if you have any problems or
concerns. It is OK to talk about any problems or concerns, even if you do not
feel that they are important or related to your pregnancy.

## Lab Tests

**Hemoglobin testing.** Measures the amount of red blood cells in your blood.
Too few red blood cells can mean that you have anemia. This is a common
problem in pregnancy, although easy to fix.

**Glucose tolerance testing.** Checks for signs of diabetes which can begin
during pregnancy. In this test, your doctor will give you a sweet liquid. An
hour later, your blood will be drawn to check your blood sugar levels. If your
results are not normal, you will have a longer glucose tolerance test.

 **Antibody screening.** Is done if the mother is Rh-negative. If you are Rh-
negative, you may need an injection called RhoGAM around 28 weeks of
gestation.

## Ultrasounds

You should have an ultrasound around 20 weeks into your pregnancy. An
ultrasound is a simple, painless procedure. A wand that uses sound waves will
be placed on your belly. The sound waves will let your doctor or midwife see
the baby.

This ultrasound is typically used to assess the baby's anatomy. The heart,
kidneys, limbs, and other structures will be visualized.

Ultrasound can detect fetal abnormalities or birth defects about half the
time. It is also used to determine the sex of the baby. Before this procedure,
consider whether or not you want to know this information, and tell the
ultrasound provider your wishes ahead of time.

## Genetic testing

All women are offered genetic testing to screen for birth defects and genetic
problems, such as Down syndrome or brain and spinal column defects.

      * If your provider thinks that you need one of these tests, talk about which ones will be best for you.
      * Be sure to ask about what the results could mean for you and your baby.
      * A genetic counselor can help you understand your risks and tests results.
      * There are many options for genetic testing. Some of these tests carry some risk, while others do not. 

Women who may be at a higher risk for these problems include:

      * Women who have had a fetus with genetic abnormalities in earlier pregnancies
      * Women age 35 or older
      * Women with a strong family history of inherited birth defects 

Most genetic testing is offered and discussed in the first trimester. However,
some tests can be performed in the second trimester or are done partly in the
first and second trimester.

For the quadruple screen test, blood is drawn from the mother and sent to a
lab.

      * The test is done between the 15th and 22nd week of pregnancy. It is most accurate when done between the 16th and 18th weeks.
      * The results do not diagnose a problem or disease. Instead, they will help the doctor or midwife decide if more testing is needed. 

Amniocentesis is a test that is done between 14 and 20 weeks.

      * Your provider or caregiver will insert a needle through your belly and into the amniotic sac (bag of fluid surrounding the baby).
      * A small amount of fluid will be drawn out and sent to a lab. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have any signs or symptoms that are not normal.
      * You are thinking of taking any new medicines, vitamins, or herbs.
      * You have any bleeding.
      * You have increased vaginal discharge or a discharge with odor.
      * You have a fever, chills, or pain when passing urine.
      * You have moderate or severe cramping or low abdominal pain.
      * You have any questions or concerns about your health or your pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy care - second trimester

## References

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Hobel CJ, Williams J. Antepartum care. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. Obstetrics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prenatal Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

