Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000558.htm    
                                Description: Trimester means 3 months. A normal pregnancy is around 9 months and has 3 trimesters.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prenatal care in your third trimester

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000558.htm

# Prenatal care in your third trimester

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trimester means 3 months. A normal pregnancy is around 9 months and has 3
trimesters.

Your health care provider may talk about your pregnancy in weeks, rather than
months or trimesters. The third trimester goes from week 28 through week 40.

## What to Expect

Expect increasing fatigue during this time. A lot of your body's energy is
directed toward supporting a rapidly growing fetus. It's common to feel the
need to reduce your activities and your work load, and to get some rest during
the day.

Heartburn and low back pain are also common complaints at this time in
pregnancy. When you're pregnant, your digestive system slows down. This can
cause heartburn as well as constipation. Also, the extra weight you are
carrying puts stress on your muscles and joints.

It is important that you continue to:

      * Eat well -- including protein rich foods and vegetables frequently and in small amounts
      * Rest as needed
      * Get exercise or get a walk in on most days

## Routine Prenatal Visits

In your third trimester, you will have a prenatal visit every 2 weeks until
week 36. After that, you will see your provider every week.

The visits may be quick, but they are still important. It is OK to bring your
partner or labor coach with you.

During your visits, will:

      * Weigh you
      * Measure your abdomen to see if your baby is growing as expected
      * Check your blood pressure
      * Take a urine sample to test for protein in your urine, if you have high blood pressure 

Your provider may also give you a pelvic exam to see if your cervix is
dilating.

At the end of each visit, your doctor or midwife will tell you what changes to
expect before your next visit. Tell your provider if you have any problems or
concerns. It is OK to talk about them even if you DO NOT feel they are
important or related to your pregnancy.

## Lab Tests and Ultrasounds

There are no other routine lab tests or ultrasounds for every pregnant woman
in the third trimester. Certain lab tests and tests to monitor the baby may be
done for women who:

      * Have a high-risk pregnancy, such as when the baby is not growing
      * Have a health problem, such as diabetes or high blood pressure
      * Have had problems in a prior pregnancy
      * Are overdue (pregnant for more than 40 weeks) 

## Checking Your Baby's Movement

In between your appointments, you will need to pay attention to how much your
baby is moving. As you get closer to your due date, and your baby grows
bigger, you should notice a different pattern of movement than earlier in your
pregnancy.

      * You will notice periods of activity and periods of inactivity.
      * The active periods will be mostly rolling and squirming movements, and a few very hard and strong kicks.
      * You should still feel the baby move frequently during the day. 

Watch for patterns in your baby's movement. If the baby suddenly seems to be
moving less, eat a snack, then lie down for a few minutes. If you still don't
feel much movement, call your doctor or midwife.

Call your provider any time you have any concerns or questions. Even if you
think you are worrying over nothing, it is better to be on the safe side and
call.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have any signs or symptoms that are not normal.
      * You are thinking of taking any new medicines, vitamins, or herbs.
      * You have any bleeding.
      * You have increased vaginal discharge with odor.
      * You have a fever, chills, or pain when passing urine.
      * You have headaches.
      * You have changes or blind spots in your eyesight.
      * Your water breaks.
      * You start having regular, painful contractions.
      * You notice a decrease in fetal movement. 

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy third trimester

## References

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Hobel CJ, Williams J. Antepartum care. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. Obstetrics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prenatal Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

