Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000180.htm    
                                Description: Mitral valve prolapse is a heart problem involving the mitral valve, which separates the upper and lower chambers of the left side of the heart. In this condition, the valve does not close normally.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mitral valve prolapse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000180.htm

# Mitral valve prolapse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mitral valve prolapse is a heart problem involving the mitral valve, which
separates the upper and lower chambers of the left side of the heart. In this
condition, the valve does not close normally.

## Causes

The mitral valve helps blood on the left side of the heart flow in one
direction. It closes to keep blood from moving backwards when the heart beats
(contracts).

Mitral valve prolapse is the term used when the valve does not close properly.
It can be caused by many different things.

In most cases, it is harmless. The problem generally does not affect health
and most people with the condition are not aware of it. In a small number of
cases, the prolapse can cause blood to leak backwards. This is called mitral
regurgitation.

Mitral valve prolapse often affects thin women who may have minor chest wall
deformities, scoliosis, or other disorders. Some forms of mitral valve
prolapse seem to be passed down through families (inherited).

Mitral valve prolapse is also seen with some connective tissue disorders such
as Marfan syndrome and other rare genetic disorders.

It is also sometimes seen in isolation in people who are otherwise normal.

![Mitral valve
prolapse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18148.jpg)

## Symptoms

Many people with mitral valve prolapse DO NOT have symptoms. A group of
symptoms sometimes found in people with mitral valve prolapse has been called
"mitral valve prolapse syndrome," and includes:

      * Chest pain (not caused by coronary artery disease or a heart attack)
      * Dizziness
      * Fatigue
      * Panic attacks
      * Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations)
      * Shortness of breath with activity or when lying flat (orthopnea) 

The exact relationship is between these symptoms and the valve problem is not
clear. Some of the findings may be coincidental.

When mitral regurgitation occurs, symptoms may be related to the leaking,
particularly when severe.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and use a stethoscope to
listen to your heart and lungs. The provider may feel a thrill (vibration)
over the heart, and hear a heart murmur (midsystolic click). The murmur gets
longer and louder when you stand up.

Blood pressure is most often normal.

Echocardiogram is the most common test used to diagnose mitral valve prolapse.
The following tests may also be used to diagnose mitral valve prolapse or a
leaky mitral valve or complications from those conditions:

      * Cardiac catheterization
      * Chest x-ray
      * Heart CT scan
      * ECG (may show arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation)
      * MRI of the heart 

## Treatment

Most of the time, there are few or no symptoms and treatment is not needed.

In the past, most people with heart valve problems were given antibiotics
before dental work or procedures such as colonoscopy to prevent an infection
in the heart. However, antibiotics are now used much less often. Check with
your provider to see if you need antibiotics.

There are many heart medicines that may be used to treat aspects of this
condition. However, most people will not need any treatment. You may need
surgery to repair or replace your mitral valve if it becomes very leaky
(regurgitation), and if the leakiness also causes symptoms. However, this may
not occur. You may need mitral valve repair or replacement if:

      * Your symptoms get worse.
      * The left ventricle of your heart is enlarged.
      * Your heart function gets worse. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, mitral valve prolapse is harmless and does not cause
symptoms. Symptoms that do occur can be treated and controlled with medicine
or surgery.

Some abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias) in people with mitral valve prolapse
can be life threatening. If the valve leakage becomes severe, your outlook may
be similar to that of people who have mitral regurgitation from any other
cause.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Chest discomfort, palpitations, or fainting spells that get worse
      * Long-term illnesses with fevers 

## Alternative Names

Barlow syndrome; Floppy mitral valve; Myxomatous mitral valve; Billowing
mitral valve; Systolic click-murmur syndrome; Prolapsing mitral leaflet
syndrome; Chest pain - mitral valve prolapse

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart valve surgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Mitral valve prolapse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18148t.jpg)Mitral valve prolapse
      * ![Heart valve surgery - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19010t.jpg)Heart valve surgery - series

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the
2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135(25):e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298458.

Thomas JD, Bonow RO. Mitral valve disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 69.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mitral Valve
Prolapse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MitralValveProlapse_thumb.jpg)Mitral
Valve Prolapse _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

