Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000398.htm    
                                Description: Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type I is a disease in which one or more of the endocrine glands are overactive or forms a tumor. It is passed down through families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) I

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000398.htm

# Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) I

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type I is a disease in which one or more of
the endocrine glands are overactive or forms a tumor. It is passed down
through families.

Endocrine glands most commonly involved include:

      * Pancreas 
      * Parathyroid 
      * Pituitary 

## Causes

MEN I is caused by a defect in a gene that carries the code for a protein
called menin. The condition causes tumors of various glands to appear in the
same person, but not necessarily at the same time.

The disorder may occur at any age, and it affects men and women equally. A
family history of this disorder raises your risk.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary from person to person, and depend on which gland is involved.
They may include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Anxiety
      * Black, tarry stools
      * Bloated feeling after meals
      * Burning, aching, or hunger discomfort in the upper abdomen or lower chest that is relieved by antacids, milk, or food
      * Decreased sexual interest
      * Fatigue
      * Headache
      * Lack of menstrual periods (in women)
      * Loss of appetite
      * Loss of body or facial hair (in men)
      * Mental changes or confusion
      * Muscle pain
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Sensitivity to the cold
      * Unintentional weight loss
      * Vision problems
      * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
your medical history and symptoms. The following tests may be done:

      * Blood cortisol level
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * CT scan of the head
      * Fasting blood sugar
      * Genetic testing
      * Insulin test
      * MRI of the abdomen
      * MRI of the head Â 
      * Serum adrenocorticotropic hormone
      * Serum calcium
      * Serum follicle stimulating hormone
      * Serum gastrin
      * Serum glucagon
      * Serum luteinizing hormone
      * Serum parathyroid hormone
      * Serum prolactin
      * Serum thyroid stimulating hormone
      * Ultrasound of the neck 

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the diseased gland is often the treatment of choice. A
medicine called bromocriptine may be used instead of surgery for pituitary
tumors that release the hormone prolactin.

The parathyroid glands, which control calcium production, can be removed.
However, it is difficult for the body to regulate calcium levels without these
glands, so a total parathyroid removal is not done first in most cases.

Medicine is available to decrease the excess stomach acid production caused by
some tumors (gastrinomas), and to reduce the risk of ulcers.

Hormone replacement therapy is given when entire glands are removed or do not
produce enough hormones.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pituitary and parathyroid tumors areÂ usually noncancerous (benign), but some
pancreatic tumors may become cancerous (malignant) and spread to the liver.
These can lower life expectancy.

The symptoms of peptic ulcer disease, low blood sugar, excess calcium in the
blood, and pituitary dysfunction usually respond well to appropriate
treatment.

## Possible Complications

The tumors can keep coming back. Symptoms and complications depend on which
glands are involved.Â Regular check-upsÂ by your providerÂ are essential.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice symptoms of MEN I or have a family history of
this condition.

## Prevention

Screening close relatives of people affected with this disorder is
recommended.

## Alternative Names

Wermer syndrome; MEN I

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Marx SJ, Wells SA. Multiple endocrine neoplasia. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. Clinical practice guidelines in
oncology (NCCN guideines): neuroendocrine tumors. Version 3.2017.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/neuroendocrine.pdf. Updated June
13, 2017. Accessed February 20, 2018.

Nieman LK, Spiegel AM. Polyglandular disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 231.

Thakker RV. Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 148.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

