Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002351.htm    
                                Description: Endocrine glands release (secrete) hormones into the bloodstream.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endocrine glands

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002351.htm

# Endocrine glands

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endocrine glands release (secrete) hormones into the bloodstream.

The endocrine glands include:

      * Adrenal
      * Hypothalamus
      * Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas
      * Ovaries
      * Parathyroid
      * Pineal
      * Pituitary
      * Testes
      * Thyroid 

![Endocrine
glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200091t.gif)Watch this video
about:Endocrine glands

## Information

Hypersecretion is when an excess of one or more hormone is secreted from a
gland. Hyposecretion is when the amount of hormones are released is too low.

There are many types of disorders that can result when too much or too little
of a hormone is released.

Disorders that may be associated with abnormal hormone product from a
particular gland include:

Adrenal:

      * Addison disease
      * Adrenogenital syndrome or adrenocortical hyperplasia
      * Cushing syndrome
      * Pheochromocytoma

Pancreas:

      * Diabetes mellitus
      * Hypoglycemia

Parathyroid:

      * Tetany
      * Renal calculi
      * Excessive loss of minerals from bone (osteoporosis) 

Pituitary:

      * Growth hormone deficiency
      * Acromegaly
      * Gigantism
      * Diabetes insipidus
      * Cushing disease 

![Pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200093t.gif)Watch
this video about:Pituitary gland

Testes and ovaries:

      * Lack of sex development (unclear genitalia) 

Thyroid:

      * Congenital hypothyroidism
      * Myxedema
      * Goiter
      * Thyrotoxicosis

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Brain-thyroid link](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19148t.jpg)Brain-thyroid link

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Klatt EC. The endocrine system. In: Klatt EC, ed. _Robbins and Cotran Atlas of
Pathology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 15.

Kronenberg HM, Melmed S, Larsen PR, Polonsky KS. Principles of endocrinology.
In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook
of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 1.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

