Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001195.htm    
                                Description: Hypogonadism occurs when the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypogonadism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001195.htm

# Hypogonadism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypogonadism occurs when the body's sex glands produce little or no hormones.
In men, these glands (gonads) are the testes. In women, these glands are the
ovaries.

## Causes

The cause of hypogonadism can be primary or central (secondary). In primary
hypogonadism, the ovaries or testes themselves do not function properly.
Causes of primary hypogonadism include:

      * Certain autoimmune disorders
      * Genetic and developmental disorders
      * Infection
      * Liver and kidney disease
      * Radiation
      * Surgery
      * Trauma  

The most common genetic disorders that cause primary hypogonadism are Turner
syndrome (in women) and Klinefelter syndrome (in men).

If you already have other autoimmune disorders you may be at higher risk for
autoimmune damage to the gonads. These can include disorders that affect the
liver, adrenal glands, and thyroid glands, as well as type 1 diabetes.

In central hypogonadism, the centers in the brain that control the gonads
(hypothalamus and pituitary) do not function properly. Causes of central
hypogonadism include:

      * Anorexia nervosa
      * Bleeding in the area of the pituitary
      * Taking medicines, such as glucocorticoids and opiates
      * Stopping anabolic steroids
      * Genetic problems
      * Infections
      * Nutritional deficiencies
      * Iron excess (hemochromatosis)
      * Radiation
      * Rapid, significant weight loss (including weight loss after bariatric surgery)
      * Surgery
      * Trauma
      * Tumors 

A genetic cause of central hypogonadism is Kallmann syndrome. Many people with
this condition also have a decreased sense of smell.

Menopause is the most common reason for hypogonadism. It is normal in all
women and occurs on average around age 50. Testosterone levels decrease in men
as they age, as well. The range of normal testosterone in the blood is much
lower in a 50 to 60 year-old man than it is in a 20 to 30 year-old man.

## Symptoms

Girls who have hypogonadism will not begin menstruating. Hypogonadism can
affect their breast development and height. If hypogonadism occurs after
puberty, symptoms in women include:

      * Hot flashes
      * Energy and mood changes
      * Menstruation becomes irregular or stops 

In boys, hypogonadism affects muscle, beard, genital and voice development. It
also leads to growth problems. In men the symptoms are:

      * Breast enlargement
      * Muscle loss
      * Decreased interest in sex (low libido) 

If a pituitary or other brain tumor is present (central hypogonadism), there
may be:

      * Headaches or vision loss
      * Milky breast discharge (from a prolactinoma)
      * Symptoms of other hormonal deficiencies (such as hypothyroidism) 

The most common tumors affecting the pituitary are craniopharyngioma in
children and prolactinoma adenomas in adults.

## Exams and Tests

You may need to have tests to check:

      * Estrogen level (women)
      * Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH level) and luteinizing hormone (LH) level
      * Testosterone level (men) 
      * Other measures of pituitary function

Other tests may include:

      * Blood tests for anemia and iron
      * Genetic testsÂ including a karyotype to check chromosomal structure
      * Prolactin level (milk hormone)
      * Sperm count
      * Thyroid tests 

Sometimes imaging tests are needed, such as a sonogram of the ovaries. If
pituitary disease is suspected, an MRI or CT scan of the brain may be done.

## Treatment

You may need to take hormone-based medicines. Estrogen and progesterone are
used for girls and women. The medicines come in the form of a pill or skin
patch. Testosterone is used for boys and men. The medicine can be given as a
skin patch, skin gel, a solution applied to the armpit, a patch applied to the
upper gum, or by injection.

For women who have not had their uterus removed, combination treatment with
estrogen and progesterone may decrease the chance of developingÂ endometrial
cancer. Women with hypogonadism who have low sex drive may also be prescribed
low-dose testosterone or another male hormone called dehydroepiandrosterone
(DHEA).

In some women, injections or pills can be used to stimulate ovulation.
Injections of pituitary hormone may be used to help men produce sperm. Other
people may need surgery and radiation therapy if there is a pituitary or
hypothalamic cause of the disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many forms of hypogonadism are treatable and have a good outlook.

## Possible Complications

In women, hypogonadism may cause infertility. Menopause is a form of
hypogonadism that occurs naturally. It can cause hot flashes, vaginal dryness,
and irritability as estrogen levels fall. The risk forÂ osteoporosis and heart
disease increase after menopause.

Some women with hypogonadism take estrogen therapy, most often those who have
early menopause. But long-term use of hormone therapy can increase the risk
for breast cancer, blood clots and heart disease. Women should talk with their
health care provider about the risks and benefits of hormone replacement
therapy.

In men, hypogonadism results in loss of sex drive and may cause:

      * Impotence
      * Infertility
      * Osteoporosis
      * Weakness 

Men normally have lower testosterone as they age. However, the decline in
hormone levels is not as dramatic as it is in women.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your provider if you notice:

      * Breast discharge
      * Breast enlargement (men)
      * Hot flashes (women)
      * Impotence
      * Loss of body hair
      * Loss of menstrual period
      * Problems getting pregnant
      * Problems with your sex drive
      * Weakness

Both men and women should call their provider if they have headaches or vision
problems.

## Prevention

Maintaining fitness, normal body weight and healthy eating habits may help in
some cases. Other causes may not be preventable.

## Alternative Names

Gonadal deficiency; Testicular failure; Ovarian failure; Testosterone -
hypogonadism

## References

Ali O, Donohoue PA. Hypofunction of the testes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, Behrman RE, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 583.

Bhasin S, Brito JP, Cunningham GR, et al. Testosterone therapy in men with
hypogonadism: an endocrine society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin
Endocrinol Metab_. 2018;103(5):1715-1744. PMID: 29562364
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29562364.

Kansra AR, Donohoue PA. Hypofunction of the ovaries. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 586.

Lamberts SWJ, van den Beld AW. Endocrinology and aging. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Swerdloff RS, Wang C. The testis and male hypogonadism, infertility, and
sexual dysfunction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 234.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

