Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000399.htm    
                                Description: Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type II (MEN II) is a disorder passed down through families in which one or more of the endocrine glands are overactive or form a tumor. Endocrine glands most commonly involved    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000399.htm

# Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type II (MEN II) is a disorder passed down
through families in which one or more of the endocrine glands are overactive
or form a tumor. Endocrine glands most commonly involved include:

      * Adrenal gland (about half the time)
      * Parathyroid gland (20% of the time)
      * Thyroid gland (almost all the time) 

Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN I)Â is a related condition.

## Causes

The cause of MEN II is a defect in a gene called RET. This defect causes many
tumors to appear in the same person, but not necessarily at the same time.

Involvement of the adrenal gland is most often with a tumor called a
pheochromocytoma.

Involvement of the thyroid gland is most often with a tumor called medullary
carcinoma of the thyroid.

Tumors in the thyroid, adrenal, or parathyroid glands may occur years apart.

The disorder may occur at any age, and affects men and women equally. The main
risk factor is a family history of MEN II.

There are two subtypes of MEN II. They are MEN IIa and IIb. MEN IIb is less
common.

## Symptoms

The symptoms may vary. However, they are similar to those of:

      * Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid
      * Pheochromocytoma
      * Parathyroid adenoma
      * Parathyroid hyperplasia

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose this condition, the health care provider looks for a mutation in
the RET gene. This can be done with a blood test. Additional tests are done to
determine which hormones are being overproduced.

A physical exam may reveal:

      * Enlarged lymph nodes in the neck 
      * Fever
      * High blood pressure
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Thyroid nodules

Imaging tests used to identify tumors may include:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Imaging of the kidneys or ureters 
      * MIBG scintiscan
      * MRI of abdomen
      * Thyroid scan
      * Ultrasound of the thyroid

Blood tests are used to see how well certain glands in the body are working.
They may include:

      * Calcitonin level 
      * Blood alkaline phosphatase
      * Blood calcium
      * Blood parathyroid hormone level
      * Blood phosphorus
      * Urine catecholamines
      * Urine metanephrine

Other tests or procedures that may be done include:

      * Adrenal biopsy
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * Thyroid biopsy

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to remove a pheochromocytoma, which can be life threatening
due to the hormones it makes.

For medullary carcinoma of the thyroid, the thyroid gland and surrounding
lymph nodes must be totally removed. Thyroid hormone replacement therapy is
given after surgery.

If a child is known to carry the RET gene mutation, surgery to remove the
thyroid before it becomes cancerous is considered. This should be discussed
with a physician who is very familiar with this condition. It would be done at
an early age (before age 5) in people with known MEN IIa, and before age 6
months in people with MEN IIb.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pheochromocytoma is most often not cancerous (benign). Medullary carcinoma of
the thyroid is a very aggressive and potentially fatal cancer, but early
diagnosis and surgery can often lead to a cure. Surgery does not cure the
underlying MEN II.

## Possible Complications

The spread of cancerous cells is a possible complication.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice symptoms of MEN II or if someone in your
family receives such a diagnosis.

## Prevention

Screening close relatives of people with MEN II may lead to early detection of
the syndrome and related cancers. This may allow for steps to prevent
complications.

## Alternative Names

Sipple syndrome; MEN II; Pheochromocytoma - MEN II; Thyroid cancer -
pheochromocytoma; Parathyroid cancer - pheochromocytoma

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Marx SJ, Wells SA. Multiple endocrine neoplasia. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. Clinical practice guidelines in
oncology (NCCN guidelines): neuroendocrine tumors. Version 3.2017.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/neuroendocrine.pdf. Updated June
13, 2017. Accessed February 20, 2018.

Nieman LK, Spiegel AM. Polyglandular disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 231.

Tacon LJ, Learoyd DL, Robinson BG. Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 and
medullary thyroid carcinoma. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et
al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 149.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

