Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000048.htm    
                                Description: The endocrine system is primarily composed of glands that produce chemical messengers called hormones. Glands of the endocrine system include the pituitary gland, the thyroid gland, the parathyroid glands,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Endocrine glands

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000048.htm

# Endocrine glands

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200091_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200091_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The endocrine system is primarily composed of glands that produce chemical
messengers called hormones. Glands of the endocrine system include the
pituitary gland, the thyroid gland, the parathyroid glands, the thymus, and
the adrenal glands.

Other glands are also included within the endocrine system since they contain
endocrine tissue that secretes hormones. These include the pancreas, ovaries
and testes.

The endocrine and nervous systems work very closely together. The brain
continuously sends instructions to the endocrine system, and in return
receives feedback from the endocrine glands. Because of this intimate
relationship, the nervous and endocrine systems are referred to as the
neuroendocrine system.

The hypothalamus is known as the master switchboard because it's the part of
the brain that controls the endocrine system. The pituitary gland, which hangs
by a thin stalk from the hypothalamus, is called the master gland of the body
because it regulates the activity of the endocrine glands.

The hypothalamus detects the rising level of the target organ's hormones then
sends either hormonal or electrical messages to the pituitary gland. In
response, the pituitary gland releases hormones, which travel through the
bloodstream to a target endocrine gland, instructing it to stop producing its
hormones.

Here's how the endocrine system keeps itself in check: eventually, the
hypothalamus detects the rising level of the target organ's hormones, and
sends a message to the pituitary gland. The pituitary gland then stops
releasing certain hormones, causing the target organ to stop producing its
hormones.

The endocrine system constantly adjusts hormone levels so that the body can
function normally. This process is called homeostasis.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Endocrine Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

