Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000930.htm    
                                Description: Cancer is a serious disease, and you should feel confident in your diagnosis and comfortable with your treatment plan. If you have doubts about either, talking to another doctor can help give you peace    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Your cancer diagnosis - Do you need a second opinion?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000930.htm

# Your cancer diagnosis - Do you need a second opinion?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cancer is a serious disease, and you should feel confident in your diagnosis
and comfortable with your treatment plan. If you have doubts about either,
talking to another doctor can help give you peace of mind. Getting a second
opinion can help confirm the opinion of your first doctor, or provide guidance
on other treatment options.

## Collaborative Cancer Care

Cancer care often involves a group or collaborative approach. It is possible
that your doctor may have already discussed your case with other doctors. This
is often the case if your doctor is considering surgery or radiation therapy
as possible treatments for your cancer. Sometimes, you may meet with these
different specialty doctors yourself.

Some cancer centers often arrange a group consult where patients meet with the
different doctors that may be involved in their care.

Many hospitals and cancer centers have committees called a tumor board. During
these meetings, cancer doctors, surgeons, radiation therapy doctors, nurses,
and others discuss cancer cases and their treatment. This is a good way for
your doctor to get further information about how to treat your cancer.

## Should You Get a Second Opinion?

You should not worry about asking your doctor for a second opinion. It is your
right as a patient to have one. Doctors are usually happy to help patients
arrange a second opinion. Your doctor may even recommend it when the best
treatment approach for your cancer is not clear.

You should seriously think about getting a second opinion if:

      * You have been diagnosed with a rare type of cancer.
      * Your doctor does not have a lot of experience treating your type of cancer.
      * You have several options for treatment and feel unsure what to do.
      * Your test results are unclear for the type and location of your cancer.
      * You are not comfortable with your diagnosis or treatment plan. 

You can get a second opinion even if you already had treatment. A second
doctor can make recommendations for how your treatment will progress.

## How to Get a Second Opinion

Start by telling your doctor you wish to have a second opinion. Ask if they
can give you a list of doctors for you to contact. Other ways to find doctors
for a second opinion include:

      * Ask another doctor that you trust to give you a list of doctors.
      * Ask friends or family who have been treated for cancer if there is a doctor they would recommend.
      * Review online resources that can help you find a doctor. 

The new doctor will meet with you and perform a physical exam. They will also
review your medical history and test results. When you meet with the second
doctor:

      * Bring copies of your medical records if you have not already sent them.
      * Bring a list of all medicines that you currently take. This includes any vitamins and supplements.
      * Discuss with the doctor the diagnosis and treatment your first doctor recommended.
      * Bring a list of any questions you have. DO NOT be afraid to ask them - that's what the appointment is for.
      * Consider bringing along a family member or friend for support. They should feel free to ask questions too. 

## What if the Second Opinion Disagrees with the First?

Chances are good that the second opinion will be similar to that of your first
doctor. If that is the case, you can feel more confident in your diagnosis and
treatment plan.

However, the second doctor may have different ideas about your diagnosis or
treatment. If that happens, DO NOT worry -- you still have choices. You could
go back to your first doctor and discuss the second opinion. You may decide
together to change your treatment based on this new information. You can also
seek the opinion of a third doctor. This could help you decide which of the
first two options is better for you.

Keep in mind that even if you get a second or third opinion, you do not have
to switch doctors. You get to decide which doctor will provide your treatment.

## References

Meyer AN, Singh H, Graber ML. Evaluation of outcomes from a national patient-
initiated second-opinion program. _Am J Med_. 2015;128(10):1138.e25-33. PMID:
25913850 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25913850.

Mordechai O, Tamir S, Weyl-Ben-Arush M. Seeking a second opinion in pediatric
oncology. _Pediatr Hematol Oncol_. 2015;32(4):284-289. PMID: 25551199
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25551199.

National Cancer Institute website. Finding health care services.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/managing-care/services. Updated August 25, 2017.
Accessed February 15, 2018.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

