Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000825.htm    
                                Description: Like any illness or disease, cancer can occur without warning. Many factors that increase your cancer risk are beyond your control, such as your family history and your genes. Others, such as whether you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer prevention: take charge of your lifestyle

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000825.htm

# Cancer prevention: take charge of your lifestyle

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Like any illness or disease, cancer can occur without warning. Many factors
that increase your cancer risk are beyond your control, such as your family
history and your genes. Others, such as whether you smoke or get regular
cancer screenings, are within your control.

Changing certain habits can give you a powerful tool to help prevent cancer.
It all starts with your lifestyle.

## Quit Smoking and Using Tobacco

Quitting smoking has a direct effect on your risk of cancer. Tobacco contains
harmful chemicals that damage your cells and cause cancer growth. Harming your
lungs is not the only concern. Smoking and tobacco use cause many types of
cancer, such as:

      * Lung
      * Throat
      * Mouth
      * Esophagus
      * Bladder
      * Kidney
      * Pancreatic
      * Certain leukemias
      * Stomach 
      * Colon
      * Rectum
      * Cervix

Tobacco leaves and the chemicals added to them are not safe. Smoking tobacco
in cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, or chewing tobacco can all give you cancer.

If you smoke, talk with your health care provider today about ways to quit
smoking and all tobacco use.

## Protect Yourself from UV Rays

The ultraviolet radiation in sunlight can cause changes to your skin. The
sun's rays (UVA and UVB) damage skin cells. These harmful rays are also found
in tanning beds and sunlamps. Sunburns and many years of sun exposure can lead
to skin cancer.

It is unclear whether avoiding the sun or using sunscreen can prevent all skin
cancers. Still, you are better off protecting yourself from UV rays:

      * Stay in the shade.
      * Cover up with protective clothing, a hat, and sunglasses.
      * Apply sunscreen 15 to 30 minutes before going outside. Use SPF 30 or higher and reapply every 2 hours if you will be swimming, sweating, or outside in direct sun for a long time.
      * Avoid tanning beds and sun lamps. 

## Maintain a Healthy Weight

Carrying a lot of extra weight creates changes in your hormones. These changes
can trigger cancer growth. Being overweight (obese) puts you at higher risk
for:

      * Breast cancer (after menopause)
      * Colon cancer
      * Endometrial cancer
      * Kidney cancer
      * Pancreatic cancer
      * Esophageal cancer
      * Thyroid cancer
      * Gallbladder cancer 

Your risk is higher if your body mass index (BMI) is high enough to be
considered obese. You can use an online tool to calculate your BMI at
www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/index.html. You can also measure your
waist to see where you stand. In general, a woman with a waist over 35 inches
(89 centimeters) or a man with a waist over 40 inches (102 centimeters) is at
increased risk for health problems from obesity.

Exercise regularly and eat healthy foods to keep your weight in check. Ask
your provider for advice on how to lose weight safely.

## Get Regular Exercise

Exercise is healthy for all, for many reasons. Studies have shown that people
who exercise seem to have a lower risk for certain cancers. Exercise can help
you keep your weight down. Staying active may help protect you against colon,
breast, lung, and endometrial cancers.

According to national guidelines, you should exercise for 2 hours and 30
minutes per week for health benefits. That is 30 minutes at least 5 days per
week. Doing more is even better for your health.

## Eat Healthy Foods

Good food choices can build up your immune system and may help protect you
from cancer. Take these steps:

      * Eat more plant-based foods like fruits, beans, legumes, and green vegetables
      * Drink water and low-sugar drinks
      * Avoid processed foods from boxes and cans
      * Avoid processed meats like hotdogs, bacon, and deli meats
      * Choose lean proteins such as fish and chicken; limit red meat
      * Eat whole grain cereals, pasta, crackers, and breads
      * Limit high-calorie fattening foods, such as French fries, doughnuts, and fast foods
      * Limit candy, baked goods, and other sweets
      * Consume smaller portions of foods and drinks
      * Prepare most of your own foods at home, rather than buying pre-made or eating out
      * Prepare foods by baking rather than broiling or grilling; avoid heavy sauces and creams 

Stay informed. The chemicals and added sweeteners in certain foods are being
looked at for their possible links to cancer.

## Limit Alcohol

When you drink alcohol, your body has to break it down. During this process, a
chemical byproduct is left in the body that can damage cells. Too much alcohol
may also get in the way of healthy nutrients your body needs.

Drinking too much alcohol is linked to the following cancers:

      * Oral cancer
      * Esophageal cancer
      * Breast cancer
      * Colorectal cancer
      * Liver cancer

Limit your alcohol to 2 drinks per day for men and 1 drink per day for women
or none at all.

## Have Regular Check-ups

Your provider can help you assess your risk for cancer and steps you can take.
Visit your provider for a physical exam. That way you stay on top of what
cancer screenings you should have. Screening can help to detect cancer early
and improve your chance of recovery.

Some infections can also cause cancer. Talk with your provider about whether
you should have these vaccinations:

      * Human papillomavirus (HPV). The virus increases the risk for cancers of the cervix, penis, vagina, vulvar, anus, and throat.
      * Hepatitis B. Hepatitis B infection increases the risk for liver cancer. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have questions or concerns about your cancer risk and what you can do
      * You are due for a cancer screening test 

## Alternative Names

Lifestyle modification - cancer

## References

Bevers TB, Brown PH, Maresso KC, Hawk ET. Cancer prevention, screening, and
early detection. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 23.

Moore SC, Lee IM, Weiderpass E, et al. Association of leisure-time physical
activity with risk of 26 types of cancer in 1.44 million adults. _JAMA Intern
Med_. 2016;176(6):816-825. PMID: 27183032
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27183032.

National Cancer Institute website. Alcohol and cancer risk.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/alcohol/alcohol-fact-sheet.
Updated June 24, 2013. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Harms of cigarette smoking and health
benefits of quitting. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-
prevention/risk/tobacco/cessation-fact-sheet. Updated December 19, 2017.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Obesity and cancer. www.cancer.gov/about-
cancer/causes-prevention/risk/obesity/obesity-fact-sheet. Updated January 17,
2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion website. Active adults.
www.health.gov/paguidelines/guidelines/chapter4.aspx. Updated August 9, 2018.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

