Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000842.htm    
                                Description: The genes in our cells play important roles. They affect hair and eye color and other traits passed on from parent to child. Genes also tell cells to make proteins to help the body function.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genetic testing and your cancer risk

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000842.htm

# Genetic testing and your cancer risk

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The genes in our cells play important roles. They affect hair and eye color
and other traits passed on from parent to child. Genes also tell cells to make
proteins to help the body function.

Cancer occurs when cells begin to act abnormally. Changes in genes (mutations)
tell the cells to divide rapidly and stay active. This leads to cancer growth
and tumors. Gene mutations may be the result of damage to the body or
something passed down in the genes in your family.

Genetic testing can help you find out if you have a genetic mutation that may
lead to cancer or that may affect other members in your family. Learn about
which cancers have testing available, what the results mean, and other things
to consider before you get tested.

## Which Cancers may be Genetic

Today, we know specific gene mutations that can cause over 50 cancers, and the
knowledge is growing.

A single gene mutation may be tied to different types of cancer, not just one.

      * For example, the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are linked with breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and several other cancers, in men and women. Around one half of women who inherit BRCA1 or BRCA2 will develop breast cancer by age 70 years.
      * Polyps or growths on the lining of the colon or rectum may be linked to cancer and at times may be part of an inherited disorder.

Genetic mutations are linked with the following cancers:

      * Breast (male and female)
      * Ovarian
      * Prostate
      * Pancreatic
      * Bone
      * Leukemia
      * Adrenal gland
      * Thyroid
      * Endometrial
      * Colorectal
      * Small intestine
      * Renal pelvis
      * Liver or biliary tract
      * Stomach
      * Brain
      * Eye
      * Melanoma
      * Parathyroid
      * Pituitary gland
      * Kidney

Signs that cancer may have a genetic cause include:

      * Cancer that is diagnosed at a younger than normal age
      * Several types of cancers in the same person
      * Cancer that develops in both paired organs, such as both breasts or kidneys
      * Several blood relatives who have the same type of cancer
      * Unusual cases of a specific type of cancer, such as breast cancer in a man
      * Birth defects that are linked to certain inherited cancers
      * Being part of a racial group with a high risk of certain cancers along with one or more of the above

## About Genetic Testing

You may first have an assessment to determine your level of risk. A genetic
counselor will order the test after talking with you about your health and
needs. Genetic counselors are trained to inform you without trying to guide
your decision. That way you can decide whether testing is right for you.

How testing works:

      * Blood, saliva, skin cells, or amniotic fluid (around a growing fetus) can be used for testing.
      * Samples are sent to a lab that specializes in genetic testing. It can take several weeks to get the results.
      * Once you get the results, you will talk with the genetic counselor about what they may mean for you. 

While you may be able to order testing on your own, it is a good idea to work
with a genetic counselor. They can help you understand the benefits and
limitations of your results, and possible actions. Also, they can help you
understand what it may mean for family members, and counsel them as well.

You will need to sign an informed consent form before testing.

## What Genetic Testing can Tell you

Testing may be able to tell you if you have a genetic mutation that is linked
with a group of cancers. A positive result means you have an increased risk of
getting those cancers.

However, a positive result does not mean you will develop the cancer. Genes
are complex. The same gene may affect one person differently from another.

Of course, a negative result does not mean you will never get cancer. You may
not be at risk due to your genes, but you could still develop cancer from a
different cause.

Your results may not be as simple as positive and negative. The test may
discover a mutation in a gene that experts have not identified as a cancer
risk at this point. You may also have a strong family history of a certain
cancer and a negative result for a gene mutation. Your genetic counselor will
explain these types of results.

There also may be other gene mutations not yet identified. You can only be
tested for the genetic mutations we know about today. Work continues on making
genetic testing more informative and accurate.

## Who Should Consider Testing

Deciding whether to have genetic testing is a personal decision. You may want
to consider genetic testing if:

      * You have close relatives (mother, father, sisters, brothers, children) who have had the same type of cancer.
      * People in your family have had cancer linked to a gene mutation, such as breast or ovarian cancer.
      * Your family members had cancer at a younger age than normal for that type of cancer.
      * You have had cancer screening results that may point to genetic causes.
      * Family members have had genetic tests and had a positive result. 

Testing can be done in adults, children, and even in a growing fetus and
embryo.

## Possible Benefits of Testing

The information you get from a genetic test may help guide your health
decisions and lifestyle choices. There are certain benefits of knowing if you
carry a gene mutation. You may be able to lower your risk for cancer or
prevent it by:

      * Having surgery.
      * Changing your lifestyle.
      * Starting cancer screenings. This can help you catch cancer early, when it can be treated more easily.

If you already have cancer, testing may help guide targeted treatment.

## Questions to Consider Before Testing

If you are thinking about testing, here are some questions you may want to ask
your health care provider or genetic counselor:

      * Is genetic testing right for me?
      * What testing will be done? How accurate is the testing?
      * Will the results help me?
      * How might the answers affect me emotionally?
      * What is the risk of passing a mutation onto my children?
      * How will the information affect my relatives and relationships?
      * Is the information private?
      * Who will have access to the information?
      * Who will pay for the testing (which can cost thousands of dollars)?

Before getting tested, be sure you understand the process and what the results
may mean for you and your family.

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider if you:

      * Are considering genetic testing
      * Would like to discuss the results of genetic testing

## Alternative Names

Genetic mutations; Inherited mutations; Genetic testing - cancer

## References

American Cancer Society website. Understanding genetic testing for cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/genetics/understanding-genetic-testing-
for-cancer.html. Updated May 23, 2016. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. BRCA mutations: cancer risk and genetic
testing. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/brca-fact-
sheet. Updated January 30, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Genetic testing for hereditary cancer
syndromes. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/genetic-
testing-fact-sheet. Updated April 11, 2013. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Schrader KA, Sharaf R, Alanee S, Offit K. Genetic factors: hereditary cancer
predisposition syndromes. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan
MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer
      * Genetic Testing

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

