Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000901.htm    
                                Description: If you have cancer, your doctor will recommend one or more ways to treat the disease. The most common treatments are surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Other options include targeted therapy, immunotherapy,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer treatments

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000901.htm

# Cancer treatments

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have cancer, your doctor will recommend one or more ways to treat the
disease. The most common treatments are surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation.
Other options include targeted therapy, immunotherapy, laser, hormonal
therapy, and others. Here is an overview of the different treatments for
cancer and how they work.

**Surgery**

Surgery is a common treatment for many types of cancer. During the operation,
the surgeon takes out the mass of cancerous cells (tumor) and some of the
nearby tissue. Sometimes, surgery is done to relieve side effects caused by a
tumor.

**Chemotherapy**

Chemotherapy refers to drugs used to kill cancer cells. The drugs may be given
by mouth or into a blood vessel (IV). Different types of drugs may be given
together at the same time or one after the other.

**Radiation**

Radiation therapy uses x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer
cells. Cancer cells grow and divide faster than normal cells in the body.
Because radiation is most harmful to quickly growing cells, radiation therapy
damages cancer cells more than normal cells. This prevents the cancer cells
from growing and dividing, and leads to cell death.

The two main types of radiation therapy are:

      *  **External beam.** This is the most common form. It aims x-rays or particles at the tumor from outside the body.
      *  **Internal beam.** This form delivers radiation inside your body. It may be given by radioactive seeds placed into or near the tumor; a liquid or pill that you swallow; or through a vein (intravenous, or IV). 

**Targeted Therapies**

Targeted therapy uses drugs to stop cancer from growing and spreading. It does
this with less harm to normal cells than other treatments.

Standard chemotherapy works by killing cancer cells and some normal cells.
Targeted treatment zeroes in on specific targets (molecules) in cancer cells.
These targets play a role in how cancer cells grow and survive. Using these
targets, the drug disables the cancer cells so they cannot spread.

Targeted therapy drugs work in a few different ways. They may:

      * Turn off the process in cancer cells that causes them to grow and spread
      * Trigger cancer cells to die on their own
      * Kill cancer cells directly 

Targeted therapies are given as a pill or IV.

**Immunotherapy**

Immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that relies on the body's ability
to fight infection (immune system). It uses substances made by the body or in
a lab to help the immune system work harder or in a more targeted way to fight
cancer. This helps your body get rid of cancer cells.

Immunotherapy works by:

      * Stopping or slowing the growth of cancer cells
      * Preventing cancer from spreading to other parts of the body
      * Boosting the immune system's ability to get rid of cancer cells 

These drugs are designed to seek and attack certain parts of a cancer cell.
Some have toxins or radioactive substances attached to them. Immunotherapy is
given by IV.

**Hormonal Therapy**

Hormone therapy is used to treat cancers that are fueled by hormones, such as
breast, prostate, and ovarian cancers. It uses surgery, or drugs to stop or
block the body's natural hormones. This helps slow the growth of cancer cells.
The surgery involves removing organs that make hormones: the ovaries or
testes. The drugs are given by injection or as pills.

**Hyperthermia**

Hyperthermia uses heat to damage and kill cancer cells without harming normal
cells.

It may be used for:

      * A small area of cells, such as a tumor
      * Parts of the body, such as an organ or limb
      * The whole body 

The heat is delivered from a machine outside the body or through a needle or
probe placed in the tumor.

 **Laser Therapy**

Laser therapy uses a very narrow, focused beam of light to destroy cancer
cells. Laser therapy can be used to:

      * Destroy tumors and precancerous growths
      * Shrink tumors that are blocking the stomach, colon, or esophagus
      * Help treat cancer symptoms, such as bleeding
      * Seal nerve endings after surgery to reduce pain
      * Seal lymph vessels after surgery to reduce swelling and keep tumor cells from spreading 

Laser therapy is often given through a thin, lighted tube that is put inside
the body. Thin fibers at the end of the tube direct the light at the cancer
cells. Lasers are also used on the skin.

Lasers are most often used with other types of cancer treatment such as
radiation and chemotherapy.

 **Photodynamic Therapy**

In photodynamic therapy, a person gets a shot of a drug that is sensitive to a
special type of light. The drug stays in cancer cells longer than it stays in
healthy cells. Then, the doctor directs light from a laser or other source at
the cancer cells. The light changes the drug to a substance that kills the
cancer cells.

**Cryotherapy**

Also called cryosurgery, this therapy uses very cold gas to freeze and kill
cancer cells. It is sometimes used to treat cells that might turn into cancer
(called pre-cancerous cells) on the skin or cervix, for example. Doctors can
also use a special instrument to deliver cryotherapy to tumors inside the
body, such as the liver or prostate.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Treatments and side effects.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects.html. Accessed November
11, 2019.

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
169.

National Cancer Institute website. Types of cancer treatment.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types. Accessed November 11, 2019.

## Review Date 9/24/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

