Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000244.htm    
                                Description: Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is a rare disorder in which growths called polyps form in the intestines. A person with PJS has a high risk of developing certain cancers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peutz-Jeghers syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000244.htm

# Peutz-Jeghers syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is a rare disorder in which growths called polyps
form in the intestines. A person with PJS has a high risk of developing
certain cancers.

## Causes

It is unknown how many people are affected by PJS. However, the National
Institutes of Health estimates that it affects about 1 in 25,000 to 300,000
births.

PJS is caused by a mutation in a gene called _STK11/LKB1_. There are two types
of PJS:

      * Familial PJS is inherited through families as an autosomal dominant trait. That means if one of your parents has this type of PJS, you have a 50% chance of inheriting the gene and having the disease.
      * Spontaneous PJS is not passed down through families. The gene mutation occurs on its own. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of PJS are:

      * Brownish or bluish-gray spots on the lips, gums, inner lining of the mouth, and skin
      * Clubbed fingers or toes
      * Cramping pain in the belly area
      * Dark freckles on and around the lips of a child
      * Blood in the stool that can be seen with the naked eye (sometimes)
      * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

The polyps develop mainly in the small intestine, but also in the large
intestine (colon). An exam of the colon called a colonoscopy will show colon
polyps. The small intestine is evaluated in two ways. One is a barium x-ray
(small bowel series). The other is a capsule endoscopy, in which a small
camera is swallowed and then takes many pictures as it travels through the
small intestine.

Additional exams may show:

      * Part of the intestine folded in on itself (intussusception)
      * Benign (noncancerous) tumors in the ear

Laboratory tests may include:

      * Complete blood count -- may reveal anemia
      * Genetic testing
      * Stool guaiac, to look for blood in stool
      * Total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) -- may be linked with iron-deficiency anemia

## Treatment

Surgery may be needed to remove polyps that cause long-term problems. Iron
supplements help counteract blood loss.

People with this condition should be monitored by a health care provider and
checked regularly for cancerous polyp changes.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on PJS:

      * National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/peutz-jeghers-syndrome
      * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/peutz-jeghers-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There may be a high risk for these polyps becoming cancerous. Some studies
link PJS with cancers of the gastrointestinal tract, lung, breast, uterus, and
ovaries.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Intussusception
      * Polyps that lead to cancer
      * Ovarian cysts
      * A type of ovarian tumors called sex cord tumors

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you or your child has symptoms
of this condition. Severe abdominal pain may be a sign of an emergency
condition such as intussusception.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended if you are planning to have children and
have a family history of this condition.

## Alternative Names

PJS

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Donoghue LJ. Tumors of the digestive tract. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 345.

McGarrity TJ, Amos CI, Baker MJ. Peutz-Jeghers syndrome. In: Adam MP, Ardinger
HH, Pagon RA, et al, eds. _GeneReviews_. Seattle, WA: University of
Washington. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1266. Updated July 14, 2016.
Accessed December 27, 2017.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![Colonic
Polyps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicPolyps_thumb.jpg)Colonic Polyps
_Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

