Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000906.htm    
                                Description: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses a medicine together with a special type of light to kill cancer cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Photodynamic therapy for cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000906.htm

# Photodynamic therapy for cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses a medicine together with a special type of
light to kill cancer cells.

## How Photodynamic Therapy Works

First, the doctor injects a medicine that is absorbed by cells all over the
body. The drug stays in cancer cells longer than it stays in normal, healthy
cells.

After 1 to 3 days, the medicine is gone from the healthy cells, but remains in
the cancer cells. Then, the doctor directs light at the cancer cells using a
laser or other light source. The light triggers the medicine to produce a type
of oxygen that treats cancer by:

      * Killing cancer cells
      * Damaging blood cells in the tumor
      * Helping the body's infection-fighting system attack the tumor 

The light can come from a laser or other source. The light is often applied
through a thin, lighted tube that is put inside the body. Small fibers at the
end of the tube direct the light at the cancer cells. PDT treats cancer in
the:

      * Lungs, using a bronchoscope
      * Esophagus, using upper endoscopy

Doctors use light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to treat skin cancers. Medicine is
placed on the skin, and the light is shone on the skin.

Another type of PDT uses a machine to collect a person's blood, which is then
treated with a drug and exposed to light. Then, the blood is returned to the
person. This is used to treat symptoms of a certain type of lymphoma.

## Pros and Cons of PDT

PDT has several benefits. For example, it:

      * Targets only cancer cells, not normal cells
      * Can be repeated many times in the same area, unlike radiation therapy
      * Is less risky than surgery
      * Takes less time and costs less than many other cancer treatments 

But PDT also has drawbacks. It can only treat areas where light can reach.
That means it can only be used to treat cancer on or just under the skin, or
in the linings of some organs. Also, it cannot be used in people with certain
blood diseases.

## Side Effects of PDT

There are two main side effects of PDT. One is a reaction caused by light that
makes the skin swollen, sunburned, or blistered after just a few minutes in
the sun or near bright lights. This reaction can last as long as 3 months
after treatment. To avoid it:

      * Close the shades and curtains on windows and skylights in your home before you get your treatment.
      * Bring dark sunglasses, gloves, a wide-brimmed hat, and wear clothes that cover as much of your skin as possible to your treatment.
      * For at least a month after treatment, stay inside as much as possible, especially between 10 am and 4 pm.
      * Cover your skin whenever you go outside, even on cloudy days and in the car. DO NOT count on sunscreen, it will not prevent the reaction.
      * DO NOT use reading lamps and avoid exam lamps, such as the type a dentist uses.
      * DO NOT use helmet-type hair dryers like those in hair salons. Use only the low heat setting when using a hand-held hair dryer. 

The other main side effect is swelling, which may cause pain or trouble
breathing or swallowing. These depend on the area that is treated. The side
effects are temporary.

## Alternative Names

Phototherapy; Photochemotherapy; Photoradiation therapy; Cancer of the
esophagus - photodynamic; Esophageal cancer - photodynamic; Lung cancer -
photodynamic

## References

American Cancer Society website. Getting photodynamic therapy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment-
types/radiation/photodynamic-therapy.html. Updated December 27, 2019. Accessed
March 20, 2020.

Lui H, Richer V. Photodynamic therapy. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni
L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

National Cancer Institute website. Photodynamic therapy for cancer.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/surgery/photodynamic-fact-sheet.
Updated September 6, 2011. Accessed November 11, 2019.

## Review Date 9/24/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

