Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000850.htm    
                                Description: Cancer staging is a way to describe how much cancer is in your body and where it is located in your body. Staging helps determine where the original tumor is, how big it is, whether it has spread, and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding cancer staging

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000850.htm

# Understanding cancer staging

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cancer staging is a way to describe how much cancer is in your body and where
it is located in your body. Staging helps determine where the original tumor
is, how big it is, whether it has spread, and where it has spread.

Cancer staging can help your health care provider:

      * Determine your prognosis (chance of recovery or likelihood the cancer will come back)
      * Plan your treatment
      * Identify clinical trials you may be able to join

Staging also gives providers a common language to use to describe and discuss
cancer.

## How Cancer is Staged

Cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the body. These cells
often form a tumor. This tumor can grow into the surrounding tissues and
organs. As the cancer progresses, cancer cells from the tumor can break away
and spread to other parts of the body through the bloodstream or lymph system.
When cancer spreads, tumors can form in other organs and parts of the body.
The spread of cancer is called metastasis.

Cancer staging is used to help describe the progression of cancer. It is often
defined by:

      * Location of the primary (original) tumor and type of cancer cells
      * Size of the primary tumor
      * Whether the cancer has spread to lymph nodes
      * Number of tumors from the cancer that has spread
      * Tumor grade (how much cancer cells look like normal cells)

To assess your cancer, your provider may perform different tests, depending on
where the cancer is in your body. These may include:

      * Imaging tests, such as x-rays, CT scans, PET scans, or MRIs
      * Lab tests
      * Biopsy

You also may have surgery to remove the cancer and lymph nodes or to explore
the cancer in your body and take a tissue sample. These samples are tested and
can provide more detailed information about the cancer stage.

## TNM Staging System

The most common system for staging cancer in the form of solid tumor is the
TNM system. Most providers and cancer centers use it to stage most cancers.
The TNM system is based on:

      * The size of the **primary tumor (T)**
      * How much cancer has spread to nearby **lymph nodes (N)**
      *  **Metastasis (M)** , or if and how much the cancer has spread to other areas in the body

Numbers are added to each category that explains the size of the tumor and how
much it has spread. The higher the number, the greater the size and the more
likely cancer has spread.

Primary Tumor **(T):**

      *  **TX:** The tumor cannot be measured.
      *  **T0:** The tumor cannot be found.
      *  **Tis:** Abnormal cells have been found, but have not spread. This is called carcinoma in situ.
      *  **T1, T2, T3, T4:** Indicate the size of the primary tumor and how much it has spread into surrounding tissue.

Lymph Nodes **(N):**

      *  **NX:** Lymph nodes cannot be evaluated
      *  **N0:** No cancer found in nearby lymph nodes
      *  **N1, N2, N3:** Number and location of lymph nodes involved where cancer has spread

Metastasis **(M):**

      *  **MX:** Metastasis cannot be evaluated
      *  **M0:** No metastasis found (cancer has not spread)
      *  **M1:** Metastasis is found (cancer has spread to other parts of the body)

As an example, a bladder cancer T3 N0 M0 means there is a large tumor (T3)
that has not spread to lymph nodes (N0) or anywhere else in the body (M0).

Sometimes other letters and sub-categories are used in addition to the ones
above.

A tumor grade, such as G1-G4 can also be used along with staging. This
describes how much cancer cells look like normal cells under a microscope.
Higher numbers indicate abnormal cells. The less the cancer looks like normal
cells, the faster it will grow and spread.

Not all cancers are staged using the TNM system. This is because some cancers,
particularly blood and bone marrow cancer such as leukemia, do not form tumors
or spread in the same way. So other systems are used to stage these cancers.

## Assigning a Stage

A stage is assigned to your cancer based on the TNM values and other factors.
Different cancers are staged differently. For instance, stage III colon cancer
is not the same as a stage III bladder cancer. In general, a higher stage
refers to more advanced cancer.

      * Stage 0: Abnormal cells are present, but have not spread
      * Stage I, II, III: Refer to size of tumor and how much cancer has spread to lymph nodes
      * Stage IV: Disease has spread to other organs and tissues

Once your cancer has been assigned a stage, it does not change, even if the
cancer does come back. A cancer is staged based on what is found when it is
diagnosed.

## References

American Joint Committee on Cancer website. Cancer staging system.
cancerstaging.org/references-tools/Pages/What-is-Cancer-Staging.aspx. Accessed
August 22, 2018.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Neoplasia. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds.
_Robbins Basic Pathology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

National Cancer Institute website. Cancer staging. www.cancer.gov/about-
cancer/diagnosis-staging/staging. Updated March 9, 2015. Accessed August 22,
2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

