Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001289.htm    
                                Description: Cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the body. Cancerous cells are also called malignant cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001289.htm

# Cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the body. Cancerous
cells are also called malignant cells.

## Causes

Cancer grows out of cells in the body. Normal cells multiply when the body
needs them, and die when they are damaged or the body doesn't need them.

Cancer appears to occur when the genetic material of a cell becomes changed.
This results in cells growing out of control. Cells divide too quickly and do
not die in a normal way.

There are many kinds of cancer. Cancer can develop in almost any organ or
tissue, such as the lung, colon, breast, skin, bones, or nerve tissue.

There are many risk factors for cancer, including:

      * Benzene and other chemical exposures
      * Drinking too much alcohol
      * Environmental toxins, such as certain poisonous mushrooms and a type of mold that can grow on peanut plants and produce a toxin called aflatoxin
      * Genetic problems
      * Obesity
      * Radiation exposure
      * Too much sunlight exposure
      * Viruses 

The cause of many cancers remains unknown.

The most common cause of cancer-related death is lung cancer.

In the United States, skin cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer.

In US men, other than skin cancer the three most common cancers are:

      * Prostate cancer
      * Lung cancer
      * Colorectal cancer

In US women, other than skin cancer the three most common cancers are:

      * Breast cancer
      * Lung cancer
      * Colorectal cancer 

Some cancers are more common in certain parts of the world. For example, in
Japan, there are many cases of stomach cancer. But in the United States, this
type of cancer is much less common. Differences in diet or environmental
factors may play a role.

Some other types of cancer include:

      * Brain cancer
      * Cervical cancer
      * Hodgkin lymphoma
      * Kidney cancer
      * Leukemia
      * Liver cancer
      * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
      * Ovarian cancer
      * Pancreatic cancer
      * Testicular cancer
      * Thyroid cancer
      * Uterine cancer

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cancer depend on the type and location of the cancer. For example,
lung cancer can cause coughing, shortness of breath, or chest pain. Colon
cancer often causes diarrhea, constipation, or blood in the stool.

Some cancers may not have any symptoms. In certain cancers, such as pancreatic
cancer, symptoms often do not start until the disease has reached an advanced
stage.

The following symptoms may occur with cancer:

      * Chills
      * Fatigue
      * Fever
      * Loss of appetite
      * Malaise
      * Night sweats
      * Pain
      * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

Like symptoms, the signs of cancer vary based on the type and location of the
tumor. Common tests include the following:

      * Biopsy of the tumor
      * Blood tests (which look for chemicals such as tumor markers)
      * Bone marrow biopsy (for lymphoma or leukemia)
      * Chest x-ray
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * CT scan
      * Liver function tests
      * MRI scan
      * PET scan

Most cancers are diagnosed by biopsy. Depending on the location of the tumor,
the biopsy may be a simple procedure or a serious operation. Most people with
cancer have CT scans to determine the exact location and size of the tumor or
tumors.

A cancer diagnosis is often difficult to cope with. It is important that you
discuss the type, size, and location of the cancer with your health care
provider when you are diagnosed. You also will want to ask about treatment
options, along with the benefits and risks.

It's a good idea to have someone with you at the provider's office to help you
get through and understand the diagnosis. If you have trouble asking questions
after hearing about your diagnosis, the person you bring with you can ask them
for you.

## Treatment

Treatment varies, based on the type of cancer and its stage. The stage of a
cancer refers to how much it has grown and whether the tumor has spread from
its original location.

      * If the cancer is in one location and has not spread, the most common treatment approach is surgery to cure the cancer. This is often the case with skin cancers, as well as cancers of the lung, breast, and colon.
      * If the tumor has spread to local lymph nodes only, sometimes these can also be removed.
      * If surgery cannot remove all of the cancer, the options for treatment may include radiation, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted cancer therapies, or other types of treatment. Some cancers require a combination of treatments. Lymphoma, or cancer of the lymph glands, is rarely treated with surgery. Chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiation therapy, and other nonsurgical therapies are often used. 

Although treatment for cancer can be difficult, there are many ways to keep up
your strength.

If you have radiation treatment:

      * Treatment is usually scheduled every weekday.
      * You should allow 30 minutes for each treatment session, although the treatment itself usually takes only a few minutes.
      * You should get plenty of rest and eat a well-balanced diet during the course of your radiation therapy.
      * Skin in the treated area may become sensitive and easily irritated.
      * Some side effects of radiation treatment are temporary. They vary, depending on the area of the body that is being treated. 

If you have chemotherapy:

      * Eat right.
      * Get plenty of rest, and don't feel like you have to accomplish tasks all at once.
      * Avoid people with colds or the flu. Chemotherapy can cause your immune system to weaken. 

Talk with family, friends, or a support group about your feelings. Work with
your providers throughout your treatment. Helping yourself can make you feel
more in control.

## Support Groups

The diagnosis and treatment of cancer often causes a lot of anxiety and can
affect a person's entire life. There are many resources for cancer patients.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the type of cancer and the stage of the cancer when
diagnosed.

Some cancers can be cured. Other cancers that are not curable can still be
treated effectively. Some people can live for many years with cancer. Other
tumors are quickly life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the type and stage of cancer. The cancer may spread.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop symptoms of cancer.

## Prevention

You can reduce the risk of getting a cancerous (malignant) tumor by:

      * Eating healthy foods 
      * Exercising regularly 
      * Limiting alcohol 
      * Maintaining a healthy weight 
      * Minimizing your exposure to radiation and toxic chemicals 
      * Not smoking or chewing tobacco 
      * Reducing sun exposure, especially if you burn easily 

Cancer screenings, such as mammography and breast examination for breast
cancer and colonoscopy for colon cancer, may help catch these cancers at their
early stages when they are most treatable. Some people at high riskÂ for
developing certain cancers can take medicines to reduce their risk.

## Alternative Names

Carcinoma; Malignant tumor

## Patient Instructions

      * After chemotherapy - discharge

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Chemotherapy and you: support for people
with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/chemo-and-you.
Updated September 2018. Accessed February 6, 2019.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/radiation-
therapy-and-you. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 6, 2019.

Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014.

Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2019. _CA Cancer J Clin_.
2019;69(1):7-34. PMID: 30620402 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30620402.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

