Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000913.htm    
                                Description: When you have cancer, you may be at higher risk for infection. Some cancers and cancer treatments weaken your immune system. This makes it harder for your body to fight off germs, viruses, and bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer treatment - preventing infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000913.htm

# Cancer treatment - preventing infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have cancer, you may be at higher risk for infection. Some cancers
and cancer treatments weaken your immune system. This makes it harder for your
body to fight off germs, viruses, and bacteria. If you get an infection, it
can quickly become serious and be hard to treat. In some cases, you may need
to go to the hospital for treatment. So it is important to learn how to
prevent and treat any infections before they spread.

## How Having Cancer Increases Infection Risk

As part of your immune system, your white blood cells help fight infection.
White blood cells are made in your bone marrow. Some types of cancer, such as
leukemia, and some treatments including bone marrow transplant and
chemotherapy affect your bone marrow and immune system. This makes it harder
for your body to make new white blood cells and increases your infection risk.

Your health care provider will check your white blood cell count during your
treatment. When levels of certain white blood cells drop too low, it is called
neutropenia. Often this is a short-lived side effect of cancer treatment. Your
provider may give you medicines to help prevent infection if this occurs. But,
you should also take some precautions.

Other risk factors for infection in people with cancer include:

      * Catheters
      * Medical conditions such as diabetes or COPD
      * Recent surgery
      * Malnutrition 

## Ways to Prevent Infection

There are many things you can do to help prevent infection. Here are some
tips:

      *  **Wash your hands often.** Hand washing is very important after using the bathroom, before eating or cooking, after touching animals, and after blowing your nose or coughing. Carry hand sanitizer for times when you cannot wash.
      *  **Take care of your mouth.** Brush your teeth often with a soft toothbrush and use a mouth rinse that does not contain alcohol.
      *  **Stay away from sick people.** It is easy to catch a cold, the flu, chickenpox, or other infection from someone who has it. You should also avoid anyone who has had a live vaccine.
      *  **Clean yourself carefully after bowel movements.** Use baby wipes or water instead of toilet paper and let your provider know if you have any bleeding or hemorrhoids.
      *  **Make sure yourfood and drinks are safe.** DO NOT eat fish, eggs, or meat that is raw or undercooked. And DO NOT eat anything that is spoiled or past the freshness date.
      *  **Ask someone else to clean up afterpets.** DO NOT pick up pet waste or clean fish tanks or birdcages.
      *  **Carry sanitizing wipes.** Use them before touching public surfaces such as doorknobs, ATM machines, and railings.
      *  **Guard against cuts.** Use an electric razor to avoid nicking yourself while shaving and do not tear at nail cuticles. Also be careful when using knives, needles, and scissors. If you do get a cut, clean it right away with soap, warm water, and an antiseptic. Clean your cut this way every day until it forms a scab.
      *  **Use gloves when gardening.** Bacteria are often in soil.
      *  **Stay away from crowds.** Plan your outings and errands for times that are less crowded. Wear a mask when you have to be around lots of people.
      *  **Be gentle with your skin.** Use a towel to gently pat dry your skin after a shower or bath, and use lotion to keep it soft. DO NOT pick at pimples or other spots on your skin.
      *  **Ask about getting a flu shot.** DO NOT get any vaccines without first talking to your provider. You should NOT receive any vaccines that contain a live virus.
      *  **Skip the nail salon and care for your nails at home.** Make sure you use tools that have been cleaned well. 

## Know How to Spot an Infection

It is important to know the symptoms of an infection so you can call your
provider right away. They include:

      * A fever of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
      * Chills or sweats
      * Redness or swelling anywhere on your body
      * Cough
      * Earache
      * Headache, stiff neck
      * Sore throat
      * Sores in your mouth or on your tongue
      * Rash
      * Bloody or cloudy urine
      * Pain or burning with urination
      * Nasal congestion, sinus pressure or pain
      * Vomiting or diarrhea
      * Pain in your stomach or rectum 

DO NOT take acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or any medicine that
reduces a fever without first talking with your provider.

## When to Call Your Doctor

During or right after cancer treatment, call your provider right away if you
have any of the signs of infection mentioned above. Getting an infection
during cancer treatment is an emergency.

If you go to an emergency room, tell the staff right away that you have
cancer. You shouldn't sit in the waiting room a long time because you may
catch an infection.

## Alternative Names

Chemotherapy - preventing infection; Radiation - preventing infection; Bone
marrow transplant - preventing infection; Cancer treatment - immunosuppression

## References

American Cancer Society website. Infections in people with cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/infections/infections-in-people-with-cancer.html. Updated February 25,
2015. Accessed December 17, 2018.

Freifeld AG, Kaul DR. Infection in the patient with cancer. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 36.

National Cancer Institute website. Chemotherapy and you: support for people
with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/chemotherapy-and-
you.pdf. Updated June 2011. Accessed December 17, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Managing chemotherapy side effects:
infection. www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/coping/chemo-side-
effects/infection.pdf. Updated February 2012. Accessed December 17, 2018.

## Review Date 10/19/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

