Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000927.htm    
                                Description: If you or a loved one has cancer, you will want to know all you can about the disease. You may wonder where to start. What are the most up-to-date, reliable sources for information about cancer?    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to research cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000927.htm

# How to research cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you or a loved one has cancer, you will want to know all you can about the
disease. You may wonder where to start. What are the most up-to-date, reliable
sources for information about cancer?

The guidelines below can help you learn all you can about cancer. That way,
you can make well-informed choices about your cancer care.

## Start With Your Cancer Care Team

Start by talking with your cancer care team. Each cancer is different and each
person is different. Your providers know you, so the type of care you receive
will be based on what is best for you and your situation.

Talk about your options with your team. You can find information on the
website of your cancer center or hospital. Many hospital web sites have a
variety of resources:

      * Health libraries
      * Print and online newsletters and magazines
      * Blogs
      * Classes and seminars focused on issues related to having cancer
      * Information about clinical trials going on at your cancer center or hospital 

You should also talk with other cancer care providers. It is a good idea to
get input from more than one doctor when faced with serious illness. Talk with
your provider about getting a second opinion before making major health
decisions.

## Explore Trusted Institutions

For more in-depth information, look to government sources and medical
associations. They provide research-based, up-to-date information about all
types of cancer. Here are several to start with:

 **National Cancer Institute** \-- www.cancer.gov. The National Cancer
Institute (NCI) is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The NCI
has several functions:

      * Supports and conducts cancer research
      * Collects, analyzes, and shares the results of cancer research
      * Provides training in cancer diagnosis and treatment 

You can find current, in-depth information on:

      * All types of cancer
      * Risk factors and prevention
      * Diagnosis and treatment
      * Clinical trials
      * Support, coping, and resources 

The NCI creates PDQ (trademark) cancer information summaries. These are
comprehensive, evidence-based summaries on topics that cover cancer treatment,
supportive and palliative care, screening, prevention, genetics, and
integrated medicine.

      * For cancer information summaries on adult cancer treatment -- www.cancer.gov/publications/pdq/information-summaries/adult-treatment
      * For cancer information summaries on pediatric cancer treatment -- www.cancer.gov/publications/pdq/information-summaries/pediatric-treatment

 **American Cancer Society** \-- www.cancer.org. The American Cancer Society
(ACS) is a nonprofit national organization that:

      * Raises money and conducts cancer research
      * Provides up-to-date information to people with cancer and their families
      * Offers community programs and services, such as Rides to Treatment, lodging, and hair loss and mastectomy products
      * Provides emotional support through online forums and classes
      * Connects patients one-on-one with volunteers who are also cancer survivors
      * Works with lawmakers to pass laws that help people with cancer 

**American Society of Clinical Oncology** \-- www.cancer.net. Cancer.net is
run by the American Society of Clinical Oncology, a professional organization
of clinical oncologists (cancer doctors). The site offers information on:

      * Different types of cancer
      * How to manage cancer care
      * Coping and support
      * Cancer research and advocacy 

**Clinical Trials.gov**. The NIH runs this service. The site provides
information on clinical trials across the U.S. You can find out:

      * What a clinical trial is
      * How to find clinical trials in your area, listed by topic or map
      * How to search for studies and use search results
      * How to find study results 

**National Comprehensive Cancer Network Patient and Caregiver Resources** \--
www.nccn.org/patients/about/default.aspx. The NCCN provides patients and their
caregivers:

      * Easy-to-understand information about cancer and cancer treatment
      * Easy-to-understand information about clinical guidelines for cancer care
      * Information on payment assistance
      * Information on clinical trials 

To review more detailed guidelines meant for physicians who treat cancer, you
can review NCCN Guidelines at
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/default.aspx.

You can see patient version of these guidelines at
www.nccn.org/patients/default.aspx.

## Use With Caution

It is important to know how to find health information you can trust. You
should use some resources with care.

**Online forums, chat rooms, and support groups.** These sources can help you
find ways to cope, share your stories, and get support. But remember that no
two people are alike when it comes to cancer. Be careful not to draw
conclusions about your cancer and how it will progress based on what happened
to someone else. You should also never get medical advice from online sources.

 **Cancer studies.** It can be interesting to read the latest study about a
new cancer drug or treatment. Just do not read too much into a single study.
New ways to diagnose, treat, and prevent cancer are only adopted after many
years of research.

**Integrative medicine (IM).** Many people with cancer look for alternative
therapies. Use care when reading about these remedies. Avoid sites that
promise miracle cures. You can find trusted information at the National Center
for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH). The center is run by the
NIH. It offers research-based information on at nccih.nih.gov.

## References

American Cancer Society website. www.cancer.org. Accessed February 15, 2018.

ASCO Cancer.net website. www.cancer.net. Accessed February 15, 2018.

Clinical Trials.gov website. www.clinicaltrials.gov. Accessed February 15,
2018.

National Cancer Institute website. www.cancer.gov. Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. Patient and Caregiver
Resources. www.nccn.org/patients/default.aspx. Accessed February 15, 2018.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 11-22-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

