Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001316.htm    
                                Description: A teratoma is a type of cancer that contains one or more of the three layers of cells found in a developing baby (embryo). These cells are called germ cells. A teratoma is one type of germ cell tumor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malignant teratoma of the mediastinum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001316.htm

# Malignant teratoma of the mediastinum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A teratoma is a type of cancer that contains one or more of the three layers
of cells found in a developing baby (embryo). These cells are called germ
cells. A teratoma is one type of germ cell tumor.

The mediastinum is located inside the front of the chest in the area that
separates the lungs. The heart, large blood vessels, windpipe, thymus gland,
and esophagus are found there.

## Causes

Malignant mediastinal teratoma occurs most often in young men in their 20s or
30s. Most malignant teratomas can spread throughout the body, and have spread
by the time of diagnosis.

Blood cancers are often associated with this tumor, including:

      * Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
      * Myelodysplactic syndromes (group of bone marrow disorders)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Chest pain or pressure
      * Cough
      * Fatigue
      * Limited ability to tolerate exercise
      * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms. The exam may reveal a blockage of the veins entering the center of
the chest due to increased pressure in the chest area.

The following tests help diagnose the tumor:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT, MRI, PET scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
      * Nuclear imaging
      * Blood tests to check beta-HCG, alpha fetoprotein (AFP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels
      * Mediastinoscopy with biopsy

## Treatment

Chemotherapy is used to treat the tumor. A combination of medicines (usually
cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin) is commonly used.

After chemotherapy is complete, CT scans are taken again to see if anyÂ of the
tumor remains. Surgery may be recommended if there is a risk that the cancer
will grow back in that area or if any cancer has been left behind.

## Support Groups

There are many support groups available for people with cancer. Contact the
American Cancer Society -- www.cancer.org.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the tumor size and location and the age of the patient.

## Possible Complications

The cancer can spread throughout the body and there may be complications of
surgery or related to chemotherapy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of malignant teratoma.

## Alternative Names

Dermoid cyst - malignant; Nonseminomatous germ cell tumor - teratoma; Immature
teratoma; GCTs - teratoma; Teratoma - extragonadal

## Images

      * ![Teratoma - MRI scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1203t.jpg)Teratoma - MRI scan
      * ![Malignant teratoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8859t.jpg)Malignant teratoma

## References

Cheng G, Varghese TK, Park DR. Mediastinal tumors and cysts. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

