Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000905.htm    
                                Description: Laser therapy uses a very narrow, focused beam of light to shrink or destroy cancer cells. It can be used to cut out tumors without damaging other tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laser therapy for cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000905.htm

# Laser therapy for cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laser therapy uses a very narrow, focused beam of light to shrink or destroy
cancer cells. It can be used to cut out tumors without damaging other tissue.

Laser therapy is often given through a thin, lighted tube that is put inside
the body. Thin fibers at the end of the tube direct the light at the cancer
cells. Lasers are also used on the skin.

## How Laser Therapy is Used

Laser therapy can be used to:

      * Destroy tumors and precancerous growths
      * Shrink tumors that are blocking the stomach, colon, or esophagus
      * Help treat cancer symptoms, such as bleeding
      * Treat cancer side effects, such as swelling
      * Seal nerve endings after surgery to reduce pain
      * Seal lymph vessels after surgery to reduce swelling and keep tumor cells from spreading 

Lasers are most often used with other types of cancer treatment such as
radiation and chemotherapy.

Some of the cancers laser therapy can treat include:

      * Breast
      * Brain
      * Skin
      * Head and neck
      * Cervical 

## Types of Laser Therapy

The most common lasers for treating cancer are:

      *  **Carbon dioxide (CO2) lasers.** These lasers remove thin layers of tissue from the surface of the body and the lining of organs inside the body. They can treat basal cell skin cancer and cancers of the cervix, vagina, and vulva.
      *  **Argon lasers.** These lasers can treat skin cancer and are also used with light-sensitive drugs in a treatment called photodynamic therapy.
      *  **Nd:Yag lasers.** These lasers are used to treat cancer of the uterus, colon, and esophagus. The laser-emitting fibers are put inside a tumor to heat up and damage the cancer cells. This treatment has been used to shrink liver tumors. 

## Benefits of Laser Therapy

Compared to surgery, laser therapy has some benefits. Laser therapy:

      * Takes less time
      * Is more precise and causes less damage to tissues
      * Leads to less pain, bleeding, infections, and scarring
      * Can often be done in a doctor's office instead of a hospital 

The downsides of laser therapy are:

      * Not many doctors are trained to use it
      * It is expensive
      * The effects may not last so the therapy may need to be repeated 

## References

American Cancer Society website. Lasers in cancer treatment.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment-types/lasers-
in-cancer-treatment.html. Updated November 30, 2016. Accessed November 11,
2019.

Garrett CG, Reinisch L, Wright HV. Laser surgery: basic principles and safety
considerations. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 60.

National Cancer Institute website. Lasers in cancer treatment.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/surgery/lasers-fact-sheet. Updated
September 13, 2011. Accessed November 11, 2019.

## Review Date 9/24/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

