Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000833.htm    
                                Description: One of the most common fears for people who have had cancer is that it may return. When cancer comes back, it is called recurrence. Cancer can recur in the same spot or in a whole different area of your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

What if cancer comes back?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000833.htm

# What if cancer comes back?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

One of the most common fears for people who have had cancer is that it may
return. When cancer comes back, it is called recurrence. Cancer can recur in
the same spot or in a whole different area of your body. No one likes to think
about having cancer again, but it is important to learn about recurrence so
you can move on with your life despite the uncertainty.

## Why Cancer Comes Back

Cancer can come back if any cancer cells are left behind after treatment. This
does not mean that your health care team did anything wrong. Sometimes, these
cancer cells can't be found by tests. But over time, they grow until they are
large enough to be detected. Sometimes, the cancer grows in the same area, but
it can also spread to other parts of your body.

There are three types of recurrence:

      * **Local recurrence.** This is when the cancer occurs in the same spot again.
      *  **Regional recurrence.** This means the cancer has grown in the tissues or lymph nodes around the original cancer area.
      *  **Distant recurrence.** This is when the cancer has spread to an area far away from the original location of the cancer. When this occurs, health care providers say the cancer has metastasized. 

## Understanding Your Risk

This risk of cancer recurring is different for each person. Your own risk
depends on several factors:

      * The type of cancer you had
      * The stage of cancer you had (if and where it had spread when you were first treated)
      * The grade of your cancer (how abnormal the tumor cells and tissue appear under a microscope)
      * Your treatment
      * The length of time since your treatment. In general, your risk gets lower the more time has passed since you were treated

To learn more about your own risk, talk with your provider. They may be able
to give you some idea of your personal recurrence and any signs to watch for.

## What You Can Do

While there is nothing you can do to make sure your cancer will not return,
there are some steps you can take to try to stay as upbeat and healthy as
possible.

      * Keep your provider visits. Your provider will want to see you regularly after your cancer treatment is done. During some of these visits, your provider will run tests to check for cancer. If your cancer does come back, regular visits can help ensure it is found early, when it is often easier to treat.
      * DO NOT drop your health insurance. After you have had cancer, you will need follow-up care for many years. And if your cancer does come back, you will want to make sure you are covered.
      * Eat healthy foods. There is no proof that eating healthy foods will prevent your cancer from coming back, but it may improve your overall health. And there is some evidence that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables and low in saturated fats may help reduce the risk for recurrence of some types of cancers.
      * Limit alcohol use. Some cancers are linked to drinking alcohol. Women should have no more than 1 drink a day and men no more than 2 drinks a day. Your risk is higher the more you drink.
      * Get regular exercise. Exercise can help improve your overall health, boost your mood, and help you stay at a healthy weight. Some studies show that being overweight may increase the risk for recurrence of breast cancer.
      * Try not to let your fears get the best of you. Focus on being as healthy as possible. Get back to your daily routine. Having a schedule can help you feel more in control. Focus on the little things that make you happy, whether it is having dinner with a friend, playing with your grandchildren, or walking with your dog.

## What if Your Cancer Does Come Back?

If you do get another cancer diagnosis, it is normal to feel anger, shock,
fear, or denial. Facing cancer again is not easy. But you have been through it
before, so you have experience in fighting cancer.

Here are some things you can do:

      * Learn all you can about your diagnosis and treatment options. Taking charge of your health care can help you feel more in control.
      * Manage your stress. Cancer can make you feel stressed and anxious. Take time to do things that you enjoy. And learn a relaxation technique.
      * Talk about your feelings with friends and family members. Think about joining a cancer support group or seeing a counselor. Talking can help you deal with the stress of fighting cancer again.
      * Set goals. Both small goals and longer-term goals can give you things to look forward to. This can be as simple as finishing a good book, seeing a play with friends, or going somewhere you have always wanted to visit.
      * Try to remain hopeful. Treatments continue to improve. These days, many types of cancer are managed like a chronic illness.
      * Consider a clinical trial. Doing so may give you access to newer treatments. It can also help others learn from your cancer. Talk with your provider to see if one might be right for you.

## Alternative Names

Carcinoma - recurrence; Squamous cell - recurrence; Adenocarcinoma -
recurrence; Lymphoma - recurrence; Tumor - recurrence; Leukemia - recurrence;
Cancer - recurrence

## References

Demark-Wahnefried W, Rogers LQ, Alfano CM, et al. Practical clinical
interventions for diet, physical activity, and weight control in cancer
survivors. _CA Cancer J Clin_. 2015;65(3):167-189. PMID: 25683894
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25683894.

Friedman DL. Second malignant neoplasms. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 62.

National Cancer Institute website. Tumor grade fact sheet.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/prognosis/tumor-grade-fact-
sheet. Updated May 3, 2013. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. When cancer returns.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/when-cancer-returns.pdf. Updated
September 2014. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

