Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000314.htm    
                                Description: Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is a condition in which the body makes too much antidiuretic hormone (ADH). This hormone helps the kidneys control the amount of water your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000314.htm

# Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is a
condition in which the body makes too much antidiuretic hormone (ADH). This
hormone helps the kidneys control the amount of water your body loses through
the urine. SIADH causes the body to retain too much water.

ADH is a substance produced naturally in an area of the brain called the
hypothalamus. It is then released by the pituitary gland at the base of the
brain.

## Causes

There are many reasons why the body needs to make a lot of ADH. Common
situations when ADH is released into the blood when it should not be produced
(inappropriate) include:

      * Medicines, such as certain type 2 diabetes drugs, seizure drugs, antidepressants, heart and blood pressure drugs, cancer drugs, anesthesia
      * Surgery under general anesthesia
      * Disorders of the brain, such as injury, infections, stroke
      * Brain surgery in the region of the hypothalamus
      * Lung disease, such as pneumonia, tuberculosis, cancer, chronic infections

Rare causes include:

      * Rare diseases of the hypothalamus or pituitary
      * Cancer of the lung, small intestine, pancreas, brain, leukemia
      * Mental disorders

## Symptoms

With SIADH, the urine is very concentrated. Not enough water is excreted and
there is too much water in the blood. This dilutes many substances in the
blood such as sodium. A low blood sodium level is the most common cause of
symptoms of too much ADH.

Often, there are no symptoms from a low sodium level.

When symptoms do occur, they may include any of the following:

      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Headache
      * Problems with balance that may result in falls
      * Mental changes, such as confusion, memory problems, strange behavior
      * Seizures or coma, in severe cases

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a complete physical examination to help
determine the cause of your symptoms.

Lab tests that can confirm and help diagnose low sodium include:

      * Comprehensive metabolic panelÂ (includes blood sodium)
      * Osmolality blood test
      * Urine osmolality
      * Urine sodium
      * Toxicology screens for certain medicines
      * You may need imaging studies done for young lungs and brain Lung and brain imaging tests in children suspected of having SIADH

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. For example, surgery is done to
remove a tumor producing ADH. Or, if a medicine is the cause, its dosage may
be changed or another medicine may be tried.

In all cases, the first step is to limit fluid intake. This helps prevent
excess fluid from building up in the body. Your provider will tell you what
your total daily fluid intake should be.

Medicines may be needed to block the effects of ADH on the kidneys so that
excess water is excreted by the kidneys. These medicines may be given as pills
or as injections given into the veins (intravenous).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the condition that is causing the problem. Low sodium that
occurs rapidly, in less than 48 hours (acute hyponatremia), is more dangerous
than low sodium that develops slowly over time. When sodium level falls slowly
over days or weeks (chronic hyponatremia), the brain cells have time to adjust
and the acute symptoms such as brain swelling don't occur. Chronic
hyponatremia is associated with nervous system problems such as poor balance
and poor memory. Many causes of SIADH are reversible.

## Possible Complications

In severe cases, low sodium can lead to:

      * Decreased consciousness, hallucinations or coma
      * Brain herniation
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

When your body's sodium level drops too much, it can be a life-threatening
emergency. Call your provider right away if you have symptoms of this
condition.

## Alternative Names

SIADH; Inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone; Syndrome of
inappropriate ADH release; Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis

## References

Hannon MJ, Thompson CJ. Vasopressin, diabetes insipidus, and the syndrome of
inappropriate antidiuresis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

Verbalis JG. Disorders of water balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

