Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000926.htm    
                                Description: Your prognosis is an estimate of how your cancer will progress and your chance of recovery. Your health care provider bases your prognosis on the type and stage of cancer you have, your treatment, and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding your cancer prognosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000926.htm

# Understanding your cancer prognosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your prognosis is an estimate of how your cancer will progress and your chance
of recovery. Your health care provider bases your prognosis on the type and
stage of cancer you have, your treatment, and what has happened to people with
cancer similar to yours. Many factors affect your prognosis.

For many types of cancer, the chance of recovery increases the more time
passes after treatment. Knowing what to expect can be helpful for you and your
family. Of course, how much information you want from your provider is up to
you.

## How Prognosis is Determined

When deciding your prognosis, your provider will look at:

      * Type and location of cancer
      * Stage and grade of cancer -- this is how abnormal the tumor cells are and how the tumor tissue looks under a microscope.
      * Your age and general health
      * Available treatments
      * How treatment is working
      * Outcomes (survival rates) of other people with your type of cancer 

Cancer outcomes are often described in terms of how many people survived 5
years after diagnosis and treatment. These rates are based on a specific type
and stage of cancer. For example, a 93% 5-year survival rate for stage II
breast cancer means that 93% of people diagnosed over a certain time lived for
5 years or more. Of course, many people live much longer than 5 years.

There are different types of statistics that doctors use to estimate survival
rates. The statistics are based on data collected for many years about people
who have the same type of cancer.

Because this information is based on a large group of people who were treated
a number of years ago, it cannot always predict how things will go for you.
Not everyone responds to treatment the same way. Also, there are newer
treatments available today than when the data was collected.

The statistics can help predict how cancer responds to certain treatments. It
can also pinpoint cancers that are harder to control.

So remember that when you receive a prognosis, it is not set in stone. It is
your provider's best guess about how your treatment will go.

## Why it May Help to Know Your Prognosis

Knowing your prognosis can help you and your family make decisions about:

      * Treatment
      * Palliative care
      * Personal matters such as finances 

Knowing what to expect may make it easier to cope and to plan ahead. It also
may help give you more of a sense of control over your life.

Of course, some people prefer not to get a lot of detail about survival rates
and so on. They may find it confusing or scary. That's fine too. You can
choose how much you want to know.

## Factors That Affect Prognosis

Survival rates are based on information from thousands of people. You may have
a similar or different outcome. Your body is unique, and no two patients are
exactly alike.

Your recovery depends on how you respond to treatment and how easy or hard the
cancer cells are to control. Other factors may also affect recovery, such as:

      * Your physical and emotional health
      * Diet and exercise habits
      * Lifestyle factors, such as whether you smoke 

Remember that new treatments are being developed all the time. This increases
the chance for a good outcome.

## Remission vs Cure

Being in complete remission after being treated for cancer means:

      * There are no traces of cancer found when your doctor examines you.
      * Blood and imaging tests find no trace of cancer.
      * Signs and symptoms of cancer are gone. 

In partial remission, signs and symptoms are reduced but not totally gone.
Some cancers can be controlled for months and even years.

A cure means that the cancer has been destroyed, and it will not come back.
Most of the time, you need to wait a period of time to see if the cancer
returns before considering yourself cured.

Most cancers that come back do so within 5 years after treatment has ended. If
you have been in remission for 5 years or more, it is less likely that cancer
may come back. Still, there can be cells that remain in your body and cause
cancer to come back years later. You could also get another type of cancer. So
your provider will continue to monitor you for many years.

No matter what, it is a good idea to practice cancer prevention and see your
provider regularly for check-ups and screenings. Following your provider's
recommendation for screening can help you have peace of mind.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have questions or concerns about your prognosis.

## Alternative Names

Outcomes - cancer; Remission - cancer; Survival - cancer; Survival curve

## References

ASCO Cancer.net website. Understanding statistics used to guide prognosis and
evaluate treatment. www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/cancer-
basics/understanding-statistics-used-guide-prognosis-and-evaluate-treatment.
Updated March 2016. February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Understanding cancer prognosis.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/factsheet/Support/prognosis-stats. Updated
November 24, 2014. Accessed February 15, 2018.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

