Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002096.htm    
                                Description: Diet can have an impact on your risk of developing many types of cancer. You can reduce your overall risk by following a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet and cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002096.htm

# Diet and cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diet can have an impact on your risk of developing many types of cancer. You
can reduce your overall risk by following a healthy diet that includes plenty
of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.

## Information

DIET AND BREAST CANCER

The link between nutrition and breast cancer has been well studied. To reduce
risk of breast cancer the American Cancer Society (ACS) recommends that you:

      * Get regular physical activity of moderate intensity for at least 30 minutes a day 5 times a week.
      * Maintain a healthy weight throughout life.
      * Eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Consume at least 2Â½ cups (300 grams) of fruits and vegetables daily.
      * Limit alcoholic beverages to no more than 2 drinks for men; 1 drink for women. One drink is the equivalent of 12 ounces (360 milliliters) beer, 1 ounce (30 milliliters) spirits, or 4 ounces (120 milliliters) wine. 

Other things to consider:

      * High soy intake (in the form of supplements) is controversial in women diagnosed with hormone-sensitive cancers. Consuming a diet that contains moderate amounts of soy foods before adulthood may be beneficial.
      * Breastfeeding may reduce a mother's risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. 

DIET AND PROSTATE CANCER

The ACS recommends the following lifestyle choices to reduce prostate cancer
risk:

      * Get regular physical activity of moderate intensity for at least 30 minutes a day five times a week.
      * Maintain a healthy weight throughout life.
      * Eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Consume at least 2Â½ cups (300 grams) of fruits and vegetables daily.
      * Limit alcoholic beverages to no more than 2 drinks for men. One drink is the equivalent of 12 ounces (360 milliliters) beer, 1 ounce (30 milliliters) spirits, or 4 ounces (120 milliliters) wine. 

Other things to consider:

      * Your health care provider may suggest that men limit their use of calcium supplements and not exceed the recommended amount of calcium from foods and beverages. 

DIET AND COLON OR RECTAL CANCER

The ACS recommends the following to reduce colorectal cancer risk:

      * Limit intake of red and processed meat. Avoid charbroiling meat.
      * Eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Consume at least 2Â½ cups (300 grams) of fruits and vegetables daily. Broccoli may be particularly beneficial.
      * Avoid excess alcohol consumption.
      * Eat recommended amounts of calcium and get enough Vitamin D.
      * Eat more omega-3 fatty acids (fatty fish, flaxseed oil, walnuts) than omega-6 fatty acids (corn oil, safflower oil, and sunflower oil).
      * Maintain a healthy weight throughout life. Avoid obesity and buildup of belly fat.
      * Any activity is beneficial but vigorous activity might have an even greater benefit. Increasing the intensity and amount of your physical activity may help reduce your risk.
      * Get regular colorectal screenings based on your age and health history. 

DIET AND STOMACH OR ESOPHAGEAL CANCER

The ACS recommends the following lifestyle choices to reduce stomach and
esophageal cancer risk:

      * Eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Consume at least 2Â½ cups (300 grams) of fruits and vegetables daily.
      * Lower your intake of processed meats, smoked, nitrite-cured, and salt-preserved foods; emphasize plant-based proteins.
      * Get regular physical activity of at least 30 minutes a day 5 times a week.
      * Maintain a healthy body weight throughout life. 

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CANCER PREVENTION

The American Institute for Cancer Research's 10 recommendations for cancer
prevention include:

      1. Be as lean as possible without becoming underweight.
      2. Be physically active for at least 30 minutes every day.
      3. Avoid sugary drinks. Limit consumption of energy-dense foods. (Artificial sweeteners in moderate amounts have not been shown to cause cancer.)
      4. Eat more of a variety of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and legumes such as beans.
      5. Limit consumption of red meats (such as beef, pork and lamb) and avoid processed meats.
      6. If consumed at all, limit alcoholic drinks to 2 for men and 1 for women a day.
      7. Limit consumption of salty foods and foods processed with salt (sodium).
      8. DO NOT use supplements to protect against cancer.
      9. It is best for mothers to breastfeed exclusively for up to 6 months and then add other liquids and foods.
      10. After treatment, cancer survivors should follow the recommendations for cancer prevention. 

RESOURCES

Dietary Guidelines for Americans -- www.choosemyplate.gov

The American Cancer Society is an excellent source of information on cancer
prevention -- www.cancer.gov

The American Institute for Cancer Research -- www.aicr.org/new-american-plate

The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics provides sound dietary advice on a wide
range of topics -- www.eatright.org

The National Cancer Institute's CancerNet is a government gateway to the
accurate information on cancer prevention -- www.cancer.gov

## Alternative Names

Fiber and cancer; Cancer and fiber; Nitrates and cancer; Cancer and nitrates

## Images

      * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17156t.jpg)Osteoporosis
      * ![Cholesterol producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19269t.jpg)Cholesterol producers
      * ![Phytochemicals](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19303t.jpg)Phytochemicals
      * ![Selenium - antioxidant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19304t.jpg)Selenium - antioxidant
      * ![Diet and disease prevention](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9275t.jpg)Diet and disease prevention

## References

Basen-Engquist K, Brown P, Coletta AM, Savage M, Maresso KC, Hawk E. Lifestyle
and cancer prevention. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow
JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 22.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Environmental and nutritional diseases. In: Kumar
V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Kushi LH, Doyle C, McCullough M, et al; American Cancer Society 2010 Nutrition
and Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee. American Cancer Society
guidelines on nutrition and physical activity for cancer prevention: reducing
the risk of cancer with healthy food choices and physical activity. _CA Cancer
J Clin_. 2012;62(1):30-67. PMID: 22237782
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22237782.

National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute website. SEER
training modules, cancer risk factors.
training.seer.cancer.gov/disease/cancer/risk.html. Accessed May 9, 2019.

US Department of Agriculture, Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee.
Scientific Report of the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee.
health.gov/sites/default/files/2019-09/Scientific-Report-of-the-2015-Dietary-
Guidelines-Advisory-Committee.pdf. Updated January 30, 2020. Accessed February
11, 2020.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/. Published December 2015.
Accessed May 9, 2019.

## Review Date 4/30/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update February 11, 2020.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

