Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000934.htm    
                                Description: Telling your child about your cancer diagnosis can be difficult. You may want to protect your child. You may worry about how your child will react. But it is important to be honest about what is happening.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to tell your child that you have cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000934.htm

# How to tell your child that you have cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Telling your child about your cancer diagnosis can be difficult. You may want
to protect your child. You may worry about how your child will react. But it
is important to be honest about what is happening.

## Why Kids Need to Know

Cancer is a hard thing to keep secret. Even very young children can sense when
something is not right. When children do not know the truth, they fear the
worst. In the face of not knowing, your child may think up a story that could
be far worse than what is really going on. For example, your child may blame
herself that you are sick.

You also risk having your child learn from someone else that you have cancer.
This may harm your child's sense of trust. And once you start cancer
treatment, you may not be able to hide the side effects from your child.

## When to Talk About Your Cancer

Find a quiet time to talk with your child when there are no other
distractions. If you have more than one child, you may want to tell each one
separately. This will allow you to gauge each child's reaction and answer his
or her questions in private.

When talking about your cancer, start with the facts. These include:

      * The kind of cancer you have.
      * What part of your body has the cancer.
      * How your cancer or treatment will affect your family and focus on how it will affect your kids. For example, tell them you may not be able to spend as much time with them as in the past.
      * Whether a relative or other caregiver will be helping out. 

When talking to your children about your treatment, it may help to explain:

      * The types of treatment you may have, and that you may have surgery.
      * About how long you will receive treatment (if known).
      * That the treatment will help you get better, but may cause difficult side effects while you are having it.
      * Be sure to prepare children ahead of time for any physical changes, such as hair loss, that you may experience. Explain that you may lose weight, lose your hair, or throw up a lot. Explain that these are side effects that will go away. 

You can adjust the amount of detail you give based on your child's age.
Children age 8 and younger may not understand complex words about your illness
or treatment, so it is best to keep it simple. For example, you can tell them
that you are sick and you need treatment to help you get better. Children ages
8 and older may understand a bit more. Encourage your child to ask questions
and try to answer them as honestly as you can.

Keep in mind that your children may also hear about cancer from other sources,
such as TV, movies, or other kids or adults. It is a good idea to ask what
they have heard, so you can make sure they have the right information.

## Common Fears

There are some common fears that many children have when they learn about
cancer. Since your child may not tell you about these fears, it is a good idea
to bring them up yourself.

      *  **Your child is to blame.** It is common for children to think that something they did caused a parent's cancer. Let your child know that no one in your family did anything to cause the cancer.
      *  **Cancer is contagious.** Many children worry that cancer can spread like the flu, and other people in your family will catch it. Make sure to let your child know that you cannot "catch" cancer from someone else, and they will not get cancer by touching or kissing you.
      *  **Everyone dies from cancer.** You can explain that cancer is a serious illness, but modern treatments have helped millions of people survive cancer. If your child knows someone who has died of cancer, let them know that there are many kinds of cancer and everyone's cancer is different. Just because Uncle Mike died of his cancer, it does not mean that you will too. 

You may need to repeat these points to your child many times during your
treatment.

## Ways to Help Your Child Cope

Here are some ways to help your children cope as you go through cancer
treatment:

      *  **Try to stay on a normal schedule.** Schedules are comforting to kids. Try to keep the same mealtimes and bedtimes.
      *  **Let them know you love and value them.** This is especially important if your treatment is keeping you from spending as much time with them as you used to.
      *  **Keep up their activities.** It is important for your kids to continue with music lessons, sports, and other after-school activities during your illness. Ask friends or family members for help with rides.
      *  **Encourage kids to spend time with friends and have fun.** This is especially important for teens, who may feel guilty about having fun.
      *  **Ask other adults to step in.** Have your spouse, parents, or other family or friends spend extra time with your children when you cannot. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Many kids are able to cope with a parent's illness without any major problems.
But some kids may need extra support. Let your child's doctor know if your
child has any of the following behaviors.

      * Seems sad all the time
      * Cannot be comforted
      * Has a change in grades
      * Is very angry or irritable
      * Cries a lot
      * Has trouble concentrating
      * Has changes in appetite
      * Has trouble sleeping
      * Tries to hurt himself or herself
      * Less interest in usual activities 

These are signs that your child may need a little more help, such as talking
with a counselor or other specialists.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Helping children when a family member has
cancer: dealing with treatment. www.cancer.org/treatment/children-and-
cancer/when-a-family-member-has-cancer/dealing-with-treatment.html. Updated
April 27, 2015. Accessed February 15, 2018.

ASCO Cancer.Net website. Talking with your children. www.cancer.net/coping-
with-cancer/talking-with-family-and-friends/talking-about-cancer/talking-with-
your-children. Updated August 2017. Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. When your parent has cancer: a guide for
teens. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/When-Your-Parent-Has-
Cancer.pdf. Updated February 2012. Accessed February 15, 2018.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

