Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003574.htm    
                                Description: The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test measures the level of CEA in the blood. CEA is a protein normally found in the tissue of a developing baby in the womb. The blood level of this protein disappears    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CEA blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003574.htm

# CEA blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test measures the level of CEA in the
blood. CEA is a protein normally found in the tissue of a developing baby in
the womb. The blood level of this protein disappears or becomes very low after
birth. In adults, an abnormal level of CEA may be a sign of cancer.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Smoking may increase the CEA level. If you smoke, your doctor may tell you to
avoid doing so for a short time before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to monitor the response to treatment and then to check for
the return of colon and other cancers such as medullary thyroid cancer and
cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries.

It is not used as a screening test for cancer and should not be done unless a
diagnosis of cancer has been made.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 0 to 2.5 ng/mL (0 to 2.5 Âµg/L).

In smokers, slightly higher values may be considered normal (0 to 5 ng/mL, or
0 to 5 Âµg/L).

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high CEA level in a person recently treated for certain cancers may mean the
cancer has returned. A higher than normal level may be due to the following
cancers:

      * Breast cancer
      * Cancers of the reproductive and urinary tracts
      * Colon cancer
      * Lung cancer
      * Pancreatic cancer
      * Thyroid cancer

Higher than normal CEA level alone cannot diagnose a new cancer. Further
testing is needed.

An increased CEA level may also be due to:

      * Liver and gallbladder problems, such as scarring of the liver (cirrhosis), or gallbladder inflammation (cholecystitis)
      * Heavy smoking
      * Inflammatory bowel diseases (such as ulcerative colitis or diverticulitis)
      * Lung infection
      * Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
      * Stomach ulcer 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding (rare)
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Carcinoembryonic antigen blood test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Franklin WA, Aisner DL, Davies KD, et al. Pathology, biomarkers, and molecular
diagnostics. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper
JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 15.

Jain S, Pincus MR, Bluth MH, McPherson RA, Bowne WB, Lee P. Diagnosis and
management of cancer using serologic and other body fluid markers. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

