Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000904.htm    
                                Description: Hyperthermia uses heat to damage and kill cancer cells without harming normal cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperthermia for treating cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000904.htm

# Hyperthermia for treating cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperthermia uses heat to damage and kill cancer cells without harming normal
cells.

It may be used for:

      * A small area of cells, such as a tumor
      * Parts of the body, such as an organ or limb
      * The whole body 

Hyperthermia is almost always used together with radiation or chemotherapy.
There are different types of hyperthermia. Some types can destroy tumors
without surgery. Other types help radiation or chemotherapy work better.

Only a few cancer centers in the United States offer this treatment. It is
being studied in clinical trials.

## Types of Cancer

Hyperthermia is being studied to treat many types of cancer:

      * Head and neck
      * Brain
      * Lung
      * Esophagus
      * Endometrial
      * Breast
      * Bladder
      * Rectal
      * Liver
      * Kidney
      * Cervical
      * Mesothelioma
      * Sarcomas (soft tissues)
      * Melanoma
      * Neuroblastoma
      * Ovarian
      * Pancreatic
      * Prostate
      * Thyroid

## Local Hyperthermia

This type of hyperthermia delivers very high heat to a small area of cells or
a tumor. Local hyperthermia can treat cancer without surgery.

Different forms of energy may be used, including:

      * Radio waves
      * Microwaves
      * Ultrasound waves 

Heat may be delivered using:

      * An external machine to deliver heat to tumors near the surface of the body.
      * A probe to deliver heat to tumors within a body cavity, such as the throat or rectum.
      * A needle-like probe to sends radio wave energy directly into the tumor to kill cancer cells. This is called radiofrequency ablation (RFA). It is the most common type of local hyperthermia. In most cases, RFA treats liver, kidney, and lung tumors that cannot be taken out with surgery. 

## Regional Hyperthermia

This type of hyperthermia uses low heat on larger areas, such as an organ,
limb, or a hollow space inside the body.

Heat may be delivered using these methods:

      * Applicators on the surface of the body focus energy on a cancer inside the body, such as cervical or bladder cancer.
      * Some of the person's blood is removed, heated, and then returned back to the limb or organ. This is often done with chemotherapy drugs. This method treats melanoma on the arms or legs, as well as lung or liver cancer.
      * Doctors heat chemotherapy drugs and pump them into the area around the organs in a person's belly. This is used to treat cancers in this area. 

## Whole Body Hyperthermia

This treatment raises a person's body temperature as though they have a fever.
This helps chemotherapy work better to treat cancer that has spread
(metastasized). Blankets, warm water, or a heated chamber are used to warm the
person's body. During this therapy, people sometimes get medicines to make
them calm and sleepy.

## Side effects

During hyperthermia treatments, some tissues may get very hot. This can cause:

      * Burns
      * Blisters
      * Discomfort or pain 

Other possible side effects include:

      * Swelling
      * Blood clots
      * Bleeding 

Whole-body hyperthermia can cause:

      * Diarrhea
      * Nausea and vomiting

In rare cases, it can harm the heart or blood vessels.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Hyperthermia to treat cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatmentsandsideeffects/treatmenttypes/hyperthermia.
Updated May 3, 2016. Accessed December 18, 2017.

Dewhirst M, Stauffer PR, Das S, Craciunescu OI, Vajaskovic Z. Hyperthermia.
In: Gunderson LL, Tepper JE, eds. _Clinical Radiation Oncology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

National Cancer Institute website. Hyperthermia in cancer treatment.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/surgery/hyperthermia-fact-sheet.
Updated August 31, 2011. Accessed December 18, 2017.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

