Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000444.htm    
                                Description: Sharps are medical devices like needles, scalpels, and other tools that cut or go into the skin. Learning how to safely handle sharps is important to prevent accidental needlesticks and cuts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Handling sharps and needles

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000444.htm

# Handling sharps and needles

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sharps are medical devices like needles, scalpels, and other tools that cut or
go into the skin. Learning how to safely handle sharps is important to prevent
accidental needlesticks and cuts.

## Preventing Injuries

Before you use a sharp object, such as a needle or scalpel, make sure you have
all the items you need close by. This includes items like alcohol swabs,
gauze, and bandages.

Also, know where the sharps disposal container is. Check to make sure there is
enough room in the container for your object to fit. It should not be more
than two-thirds full.

Some needles have a protective device, such as a needle shield, sheath, or
blunting, that you activate after you remove the needle from the person. This
allows you to handle the needle safely, without the risk of exposing yourself
to blood or body fluids. If you are using this kind of needle, make sure you
know how it works before you use it.

Follow these guidelines when you work with sharps.

      * DO NOT uncover or unwrap the sharp object until it is time to use it.
      * Keep the object pointed away from yourself and other people at all times.
      * Never recap or bend a sharp object.
      * Keep your fingers away from the tip of the object.
      * If the object is reusable, put it in a secure, closed container after you use it.
      * Never hand a sharp object to someone else or put it on a tray for another person to pick up.
      * Tell the people you are working with when you plan to set the object down or pick it up.

## Sharps Disposal

Make sure the disposal container is made for disposing of sharp objects.
Replace containers when they are two-thirds full.

Other important tips include:

      * Never put your fingers into the sharps container.
      * If the needle has tubing attached to it, hold the needle and the tubing when you put it in the sharps container.
      * Sharps containers should be at eye level and within your reach.
      * If a needle is sticking out of the container, do not push it in with your hands. Call to have the container removed. Or, a trained person may use tongs to push the needle back into the container.
      * If you find an uncovered sharp object outside of a disposal container, it is safe to pick it up only if you can grasp the non-sharp end. If you cannot, use tongs to pick it up and dispose of it. 

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Sharps safety for
healthcare settings. www.cdc.gov/sharpssafety/resources.html. Updated February
11, 2015. Accessed October 22, 2019.

Occupational Safety and Health Administration website. OSHA fact sheet:
protecting yourself when handling contaminated sharps.
www.osha.gov/OshDoc/data_BloodborneFacts/bbfact02.pdf. Updated January 2011.
Accessed October 22, 2019.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Medical Device Safety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

