Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001220.htm    
                                Description: A muscle disorderÂ includes patterns of weakness, electromyogram (EMG) findings, or biopsy results that suggest a muscle problem. The muscle disorder can be inherited, such as muscular dystrophy, or acquired,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Muscle disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001220.htm

# Muscle disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A muscle disorderÂ includes patterns of weakness, electromyogram (EMG)
findings, or biopsy results that suggest a muscle problem. The muscle disorder
can be inherited, such as muscular dystrophy, or acquired, such as alcoholic
or steroid myopathy.

The medical name for muscle disorder is myopathy.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is weakness.

Other symptoms include cramps and stiffness.

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests sometimes show abnormally high muscle enzymes. If a muscle
disorder might also affect other family members, genetic testing may be done.

When someone has symptoms and signs of a muscle disorder, tests such as an
electromyogram, muscle biopsy, or both can confirm whether it is a myopathy. A
muscle biopsy examines a tissue sample under a microscope to confirm disease.
Sometimes, a blood test to check for a genetic disorder is all that is needed
based on someone's symptoms and family history.  

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause. It usually includes:

      * Bracing
      * Medication
      * Physical therapy
      * Preventing the condition from getting worse by treating the underlying condition causing the muscle weakness
      * Surgery (sometimes)

Your health care provider can tell you more about your condition and treatment
options.

## Alternative Names

Myopathic changes; Myopathy; Muscle problem

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles

## References

Borg K, Ensrud E. Myopathies. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation._ 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 135.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.  

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

