Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003174.htm    
                                Description: Weakness is reduced strength in one or more muscles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Weakness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003174.htm

# Weakness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Weakness is reduced strength in one or more muscles.

## Causes

Weakness may be all over the body or in only one area. Weakness is more
noticeable when it is in one area. Weakness in one area may occur:

      * After a stroke
      * After injury to a nerve
      * During a flare-up of multiple sclerosis (MS)

You may feel weak but have no real loss of strength. This is called subjective
weakness. It may be due to an infection such as the flu. Or, you may have a
loss of strength that can be noted on a physical exam. This is called
objective weakness.

Weakness may be caused by diseases or conditions affecting many different body
systems, such as the following:

METABOLIC

      * Adrenal glands not producing enough hormones (Addison disease)
      * Parathyroid glands producing too much parathyroid hormone (hyperparathyroidism)
      * Low sodium or potassium
      * Overactive thyroid (thyrotoxicosis) 

BRAIN/NERVOUS SYSTEM (NEUROLOGIC)

      * Disease of the nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ALS)
      * Weakness of the muscles of the face (Bell palsy)
      * Group of disorders involving brain and nervous system functions (cerebral palsy)
      * Nerve inflammation causing muscle weakness (Guillain-Barre syndrome)
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Pinched nerve (for example, caused by a slipped disk in the spine)
      * Stroke 

MUSCLE DISEASES

      * Inherited disorder that involves slowly worsening muscle weakness of the legs and pelvis (Becker muscular dystrophy)
      * Muscle disease that involves inflammation and a skin rash (dermatomyositis)
      * Group of inherited disorders that cause muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue (muscular dystrophy) 

POISONING

      * Botulism
      * Poisoning (insecticides, nerve gas)
      * Shellfish poisoning 

OTHER

      * Not enough healthy red blood cells (anemia)
      * Disorder of the muscles and nerves that control them (myasthenia gravis)
      * Polio
      * Cancer

## Home Care

Follow the treatment your health care provider recommends to treat the cause
of the weakness.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Sudden weakness, especially if it is in one area and does not occur with other symptoms, such as fever
      * Sudden weakness after being ill with a virus
      * Weakness that does not go away and has no cause you can explain
      * Weakness in one area of the body

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam. Your provider will also ask you about
your weakness, such as when it began, how long it has lasted, and whether you
have it all the time or only at certain times. You may also be asked about
medicines you take or if you have been ill recently.

The provider may pay close attention to your heart, lungs, and thyroid gland.
The exam will focus on the nerves and muscles if the weakness is only in one
area.

You may have blood or urine tests. Imaging tests such as x-ray or ultrasound
may also be ordered.

## Alternative Names

Lack of strength; Muscle weakness

## References

Fearon C, Murray B, Mitsumoto H. Disorders of upper and lower motor neurons.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
98.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

