Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003298.htm    
                                Description: Hypotonia means decreased muscle tone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypotonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003298.htm

# Hypotonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypotonia means decreased muscle tone.

## Considerations

Hypotonia is often a sign of a worrisome problem. The condition can affect
children or adults.

Infants with this problem seem floppy and feel like a "rag doll" when held.
They rest with their elbows and knees loosely extended. Infants with normal
tone tend to have flexed elbows and knees. They may have poor head control.
The head may fall to the side, backward, or forward.

Infants with normal tone can be lifted with the adult's hands placed under the
armpits. Hypotonic infants tend to slip between the hands.

## Causes

Muscle tone and movement involve the brain, spinal cord, nerves, and muscles.
Hypotonia may be a sign of a problem anywhere along the pathway that controls
muscle movement. Causes may include:

      * Brain damage, due to lack of oxygen before or right after birth, or problems with brain formation
      * Disorders of the muscles, such as muscular dystrophy
      * Disorders that affect the nerves that supply muscles
      * Disorders that affect the ability of nerves to send messages to the muscles
      * Infections 

Genetic or chromosomal disorders, or defects that may cause brain and nerve
damage include:

      * Down syndrome
      * Spinal muscular atrophy
      * Prader-Willi syndrome
      * Tay-Sachs disease
      * Trisomy 13

Other disorders that can lead to the condition include:

      * Achondroplasia
      * Being born with hypothyroidism
      * Poisons or toxins
      * Spinal cord injuries that occur around the time of birth

## Home Care

Take extra care when lifting and carrying a person with hypotonia to avoid
causing an injury.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The physical exam will include a detailed examination of the nervous system
and muscle function.

In most cases,Â a neurologist (specialist in brain and nerves) will help
evaluate the problem. Geneticists may help diagnose certain disorders. If
there are also other medical problems, a number of different specialists will
help care for the child.

Which diagnostic tests are done depends on the suspected cause of the
hypotonia. Most of the conditions associated with hypotonia also cause other
symptoms that can help in the diagnosis.

Many of these disorders require ongoing care and support.

## Alternative Names

Decreased muscle tone; Floppy infant

## Images

      * ![Hypotonia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17229t.jpg)Hypotonia
      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Burnette WB. Hypotonic (floppy) infant. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

Johnston MV. Encephalopathies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 598.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Weakness and hypotonia. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman
RM, eds. _Nelson Essesntials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 182.

Sarnat HB. Evaluation and investigation. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 607.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

