Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000063.htm    
                                Description: Muscle spasticity, or spasms, causes your muscles to become stiff or rigid. It can also cause exaggerated, deep tendon reflexes, like a knee-jerk reaction when your reflexes are checked.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000063.htm

# Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Muscle spasticity, or spasms, causes your muscles to become stiff or rigid. It
can also cause exaggerated, deep tendon reflexes, like a knee-jerk reaction
when your reflexes are checked.

## Self-care

These things may make your spasticity worse:

      * Being too hot or too cold
      * The time of day
      * Stress
      * Tight clothing
      * Bladder infections and spasms
      * Your menstrual cycle (for women)
      * Certain body positions
      * New skin wounds or ulcers
      * Hemorrhoids
      * Being very tired or not getting enough sleep 

Your physical therapist can teach you and your caregiver stretching exercises
you can do. These stretches will help keep your muscles from getting shorter
or tighter.

Being active also helps keep your muscles loose. Aerobic exercise, such as
swimming, and strength-building exercises are helpful as are playing sports
and doing daily tasks. Talk with your health care provider or physical
therapist first before starting any exercise program.

Your provider may place splints or casts on some of your joints to keep them
from becoming so tight that you cannot move them easily. Make sure to wear
these as your provider tells you to.

Be careful about getting pressure sores from exercise or being in the same
position in a bed or wheelchair for too long.

Muscle spasticity can increase your chances of falling and hurting yourself.
Be sure to take precautions so you do not fall.

## Medicines That Help With Spasticity

Your provider may prescribe medicines for you to take to help with muscle
spasticity. Some common ones are:

      * Baclofen (Lioresal)
      * Dantrolene (Dantrium)
      * Diazepam (Valium)
      * Tizanidine (Zanaflex)

These drugs have side effects. Call your provider if you have any of the
following side effects:

      * Being tired during the day
      * Confusion
      * Feeling "hung over" in the morning
      * Nausea
      * Problems passing urine

DO NOT just stop taking these medicines, especially Zanaflex. It can be
dangerous if you stop abruptly.

## When to Call the Doctor

Pay attention to changes in your muscle spasticity. Changes may mean that your
other medical problems are getting worse.

Always call your provider if you have any of the following:

      * Problems with the drugs you are taking for muscle spasms
      * Can't move your joints as much (joint contracture)
      * Harder time moving around or transferring out of your bed or chair
      * Skin sores or skin redness
      * Your pain is getting worse

## Alternative Names

High muscle tone - care; Increased muscle tension - care; Upper motor neuron
syndrome - care; Muscle stiffness - care

## References

Francisco GE, Li S. Spasticity. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Hallum A, Allen DD. Neuromuscular diseases. In: Umphred DA, Burton GU, Lazaro
RT, Roller ML, eds. _Umphred's Neurological Rehabilitation_. 6th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2013:chap 17.

## Read More

      * Brain aneurysm repair
      * Brain surgery
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
      * Preventing pressure ulcers
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Muscle Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

