Link: https://medlineplus.gov/nondrugpainmanagement.html    
                                Description: There are risks to taking pain medicines, especially opioids. Learn about different techniques and treatments which may help you manage your pain without taking medicines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Non-Drug Pain Management

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/nondrugpainmanagement.html

#  Non-Drug Pain Management

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * No links available

## Summary

### What is pain?

Pain is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an
unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be
sharp or dull. It may come and go, or it may be constant. You may feel pain in
one area of your body, such as your back, abdomen, chest, pelvis, or you may
feel pain all over.

There are two types of pain:

    * **Acute pain** usually comes on suddenly, because of a disease, injury, or inflammation. It can often be diagnosed and treated. It usually goes away, though sometimes it can turn into chronic pain.
    * **Chronic pain** lasts for a long time, and can cause severe problems

### What are pain relievers?

Pain relievers are medicines that reduce or relieve pain. There are many
different pain medicines, and each one has advantages and risks. Some are
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. Others are stronger medicines, which are
available by prescription. The most powerful prescription pain relievers are
opioids. They are very effective, but people who take them are at risk of
addiction and overdose.

Because of the side effects and risks of pain relievers, you may want to try
non-drug treatments first. And if you do need to take medicines, also doing
some non-drug treatments may allow you to take a lower dose.

### What are some non-drug treatments for pain?

There are many non-drug treatments that can help with pain. It is important to
check with your health care provider before trying any of them:

    * **Acupuncture** involves stimulating acupuncture points. These are specific points on your body. There are different acupuncture methods. The most common one involves inserting thin needles through the skin. Others include using pressure, electrical stimulation, and heat. Acupuncture is based on the belief that qi (vital energy) flows through the body along paths, called meridians. Practitioners believe that stimulating the acupuncture points can rebalance the qi. Research suggests that acupuncture can help manage certain pain conditions.
    * **Biofeedback techniques** use electronic devices to measure body functions such as breathing and heart rate. This teaches you to be more aware of your body functions so you can learn to control them. For example, a biofeedback device may show you measurements of your muscle tension. By watching how these measurements change, you can become more aware of when your muscles are tense and learn to relax them. Biofeedback may help to control pain, including chronic headaches and back pain.
    * **Electrical stimulation** involves using a device to send a gentle electric current to your nerves or muscles. This can help treat pain by interrupting or blocking the pain signals. Types include
      * Transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS)
      * Implanted electric nerve stimulation
      * Deep brain or spinal cord stimulation
    * **Massage therapy** is a treatment in which the soft tissues of the body are kneaded, rubbed, tapped, and stroked. Among other benefits, it may help people relax, and relieve stress and pain.
    * **Meditation** is a mind-body practice in which you focus your attention on something, such as an object, word, phrase, or breathing. This helps you to minimize distracting or stressful thoughts or feelings.
    * **Physical therapy** uses techniques such as heat, cold, exercise, massage, and manipulation. It can help to control pain, as well as condition muscles and restore strength.
    * **Psychotherapy** (talk therapy) uses methods such as discussion, listening, and counseling to treat mental and behavioral disorders. It can also help people who have pain, especially chronic pain, by
      * Teaching them coping skills, to be able to better deal with the stress that pain can cause
      * Addressing negative thoughts and emotions that can make pain worse
      * Providing them with support
    * **Relaxation therapy** can help reduce muscle tension and stress, lower blood pressure, and control pain. It may involve tensing and relaxing muscles throughout the body. It may be used with guided imagery (focusing the mind on positive images) and meditation.
    * **Surgery** can sometimes be necessary to treat severe pain, especially when it is caused by back problems or serious musculoskeletal injuries. There are always risks to getting surgery, and it does not always work to treat pain. So it is important to go through all of the risks and benefits with your health care provider.

## Start Here

    * Consumer Information on Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Managing Chronic Pain: How Psychologists Can Help with Pain Management (American Psychological Association)
    * Pain Mangement: Non-Opioid Treatment (American Society of Anesthesiologists)

## Related Issues

    * Know Your Options (to Manage Your Pain Without Opioids) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Acupuncture: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Biofeedback (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Chiropractic, Spinal Manipulation, and Osteopathic Manipulation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Chiropractic: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Pain and Complementary Health Approaches ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Hypnosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Magnets for Pain Relief ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Massage Therapy for Health Purposes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Meditation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment (American Osteopathic Association)
    * Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Tai Chi and Qi Gong ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * What Is Music Therapy? (American Music Therapy Association)
    * Yoga: What You Need to Know ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Statistics and Research

    * Managing Pain: Moving Beyond Opioids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Complementary and Integrative Therapies for Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Vocal Music Therapy for Chronic Pain: A Mixed Methods Feasibility Study.
    * Article: Mindfulness-Based Meditation Versus Progressive Relaxation Meditation: Impact on Chronic Pain in...
    * Article: Sonotherapy in the reduction of anxiety and postoperative pain in patients...
    * Non-Drug Pain Management -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Terms Related to Complementary and Integrative Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Massage Therapist (American Massage Therapy Association)
    * Find a NCCAOM Certified Practitioner (National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine)
    * National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Non-drugPainManagement.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Alternative medicine - pain relief
    * Chiropractic care for back pain
    * Cognitive behavioral therapy for back pain
    * Yoga for health

## Related Health Topics

    * Acupuncture
    * Chiropractic
    * Chronic Pain
    * Complementary and Integrative Medicine
    * Pain
    * Rehabilitation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Non-Drug Pain Management is the
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

