Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003178.htm    
                                Description: Muscle aches and pains are common and can involve more than one muscle. Muscle pain also can involve ligaments, tendons, and fascia. Fascias are the soft tissues that connect muscles, bones, and organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Muscle aches

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003178.htm

# Muscle aches

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Muscle aches and pains are common and can involve more than one muscle. Muscle
pain also can involve ligaments, tendons, and fascia. Fascias are the soft
tissues that connect muscles, bones, and organs.

## Considerations

Muscle pain is most often related to tension, overuse, or muscle injury from
exercise or hard physical work. The pain tends to involve specific muscles and
starts during or just after the activity. It is often obvious which activity
is causing the pain.

Muscle pain also can be a sign of conditions affecting your whole body. For
example, some infections (including the flu) and disorders that affect
connective tissues throughout the body (such as lupus) can cause muscle pain.

One common cause of muscle aches and pain is fibromyalgia, a condition that
causes tenderness in your muscles and surrounding soft tissue, sleep
difficulties, fatigue, and headaches.

## Causes

The most common causes of muscle aches and pains are:

      * Injury or trauma, including sprains and strains
      * Overuse including using a muscle too much, too soon before warming up, or too often
      * Tension or stress 

Muscle pain may also be due to:

      * Certain drugs, including ACE inhibitors for lowering blood pressure, cocaine, and statins for lowering cholesterol
      * Dermatomyositis
      * Electrolyte imbalance, such as too little potassium or calcium
      * Fibromyalgia
      * Infections, including the flu, Lyme disease, malaria, muscle abscess, polio, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, trichinosis (roundworm)
      * Lupus
      * Polymyalgia rheumatica
      * Polymyositis
      * Rhabdomyolysis

## Home Care

For muscle pain from overuse or injury, rest the affected body part and take
acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Apply ice for the first 24 to 72 hours after
injury to reduce pain and inflammation. After that, heat often feels more
soothing.

Muscle aches from overuse and fibromyalgia often respond well to massage.
Gentle stretching exercises after a long rest period are also helpful.

Regular exercise can help restore proper muscle tone. Walking, cycling, and
swimming are good aerobic activities to try. A physical therapist can teach
you stretching, toning, and aerobic exercises to help you feel better and stay
pain-free. Begin slowly and increase workouts gradually. Avoid high-impact
aerobic activities and weight lifting when injured or while in pain.

Be sure to get plenty of sleep and try to reduce stress. Yoga and meditation
are excellent ways to help you sleep and relax.

If home measures aren't working, your health care provider may prescribe
medicine or physical therapy. You may need to be seen at a specialized pain
clinic.

If your muscle aches are due to a specific disease, do the things your
provider has told you to treat the underlying condition.

These steps may help lower the risk for getting muscle aches:

      * Stretch before and after exercising.
      * Warm up before exercising and cool down afterward.
      * Drink lots of fluids before, during, and after exercise.
      * If you work in the same position most of the day (such as sitting at a computer), stretch at least every hour. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Your muscle pain lasts more than 3 days.
      * You have severe, unexplained pain.
      * You have any sign of infection, such as swelling or redness around the tender muscle.
      * You have poor circulation in the area where you have muscles aches (for example, in your legs).
      * You have a tick bite or a rash.
      * Your muscle pain is linked with starting or changing doses of a medicine, such as a statin. 

Call 911 if:

      * You have sudden weight gain, water retention, or you are urinating less than usual.
      * You are short of breath or have difficulty swallowing.
      * You have muscle weakness or cannot move any part of your body.
      * You are vomiting, or have a very stiff neck or high fever. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical examination and ask questions about your
muscle pain, such as:

      * When did it start? How long does it last?
      * Where is it exactly? Is it all over or only in a specific area?
      * Is it always in the same location?
      * What makes it better or worse?
      * Do other symptoms occur at the same time, like joint pain, fever, vomiting, weakness, malaise (a general feeling of discomfort or weakness), or difficulty using the affected muscle?
      * Is there a pattern to the muscle aches?
      * Have you taken any new medicines lately? 

Tests that may be done include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Other blood tests to look at muscle enzymes (creatine kinase) and possibly a test for Lyme disease or a connective tissue disorder 

## Alternative Names

Muscle pain; Myalgia; Pain - muscles

## Images

      * ![Muscle pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19676t.jpg)Muscle pain
      * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy

## References

Best TM, Asplund CA. Exercise physiology. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR. eds.
_DeLee, Drez and Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 6.

Clauw DJ. Fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and myofascial pain. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 258.

Parekh R. Rhabdomyolysis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 119.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

