Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000473.htm    
                                Description: Rhabdomyolysis is the breakdown of muscle tissue that leads to the release of muscle fiber contents into the blood. These substances are harmful to the kidney and often cause kidney damage.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rhabdomyolysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000473.htm

# Rhabdomyolysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rhabdomyolysis is the breakdown of muscle tissue that leads to the release of
muscle fiber contents into the blood. These substances are harmful to the
kidney and often cause kidney damage.

## Causes

When muscle is damaged, a protein called myoglobin is released into the
bloodstream. It is then filtered out of the body by the kidneys. Myoglobin
breaks down into substances that can damage kidney cells.

Rhabdomyolysis may be caused by injury or any other condition that damages
skeletal muscle.

Problems that may lead to this disease include:

      * Trauma or crush injuries
      * Use of drugs such as cocaine, amphetamines, statins, heroin, or PCP
      * Genetic muscle diseases
      * Extremes of body temperature
      * Ischemia or death of muscle tissue
      * Low phosphate levels
      * Seizures or muscle tremors
      * Severe exertion, such as marathon running or calisthenics
      * Lengthy surgical procedures
      * Severe dehydration 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Dark, red, or cola-colored urine
      * Decreased urine output
      * General weakness
      * Muscle stiffness or aching (myalgia)
      * Muscle tenderness
      * Weakness of the affected muscles 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

      * Fatigue
      * Joint pain
      * Seizures
      * Weight gain (unintentional)

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam will show tender or damaged skeletal muscles.

The following tests may be done:

      * Creatine kinase (CK) level
      * Serum calcium
      * Serum myoglobin
      * Serum potassium
      * Urinalysis
      * Urine myoglobin test 

This disease may also affect the results of the following tests:

      * CK isoenzymes
      * Serum creatinine
      * Urine creatinine

## Treatment

You will need to get fluids containing bicarbonate to help prevent kidney
damage. You may need to get fluids through a vein (IV). Some people may need
kidney dialysis.

Your health care provider may prescribe medicines including diuretics and
bicarbonate (if there is enough urine output).

Hyperkalemia and low blood calcium levels (hypocalcemia) should be treated
right away. Kidney failure should also be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the amount of kidney damage. Acute kidney failure
occurs in many people. Getting treated soon after rhabdomyolysis will reduce
the risk of permanent kidney damage.

People with milder cases may return to their normal activities within a few
weeks to a month. However, some people continue to have problems with fatigue
and muscle pain.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Acute tubular necrosis
      * Acute renal failure
      * Harmful chemical imbalances in the blood
      * Shock (low blood pressure) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of rhabdomyolysis.

## Prevention

Rhabdomyolysis can be avoided by:

      * Drinking plenty of fluids after strenuous exercise.
      * Removing extra clothes and immersing the body in cold water in case of heat stroke.

## Images

      * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Haseley L, Jefferson JA. Pathophysiology and etiology of acute kidney injury.
In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

O'Connor FG, Deuster PA. Rhabdomyolysis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 105.

Parekh R. Rhabdomyolysis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 119.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

