Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003503.htm    
                                Description: Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) is an enzyme in the body. It is found mainly in the heart, brain, and skeletal muscle. This article discusses the test to measure the amount of CPK in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Creatine phosphokinase test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003503.htm

# Creatine phosphokinase test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) is an enzyme in the body. It is found mainly in
the heart, brain, and skeletal muscle. This article discusses the test to
measure the amount of CPK in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This may be taken from a vein. The procedure is
called a venipuncture.

This test may be repeated over 2 or 3 days if you are a patient in the
hospital.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed most of the time.

Tell your health care provider about any medicines you are taking. Drugs that
can increase CPK measurements include amphotericin B, certain anesthetics,
statins, fibrates, dexamethasone, alcohol, and cocaine.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain when the needle is inserted to draw blood. Some
people feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

When the total CPK level is very high, it most often means there has been
injury or stress to muscle tissue, the heart, or the brain.

Muscle tissue injury is most likely. When a muscle is damaged, CPK leaks into
the bloodstream. Finding which specific form of CPK is high helps determine
which tissue has been damaged.

This test may be used to:

      * Diagnose heart attack
      * Evaluate cause of chest pain
      * Determine if or how badly a muscle is damaged
      * Detect dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and other muscle diseases
      * Tell the difference between malignant hyperthermia and postoperative infection 

The pattern and timing of a rise or fall in CPK levels can be significant in
making a diagnosis. This is particularly true if a heart attack is suspected.

In most cases other tests are used instead of or with this test to diagnose a
heart attack.

## Normal Results

Total CPK normal values:

      * 10 to 120 micrograms per liter (mcg/L) 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High CPK levels may be seen in people who have:

      * Brain injury or stroke
      * Convulsions
      * Delirium tremens
      * Dermatomyositis or polymyositis
      * Electric shock
      * Heart attack
      * Inflammation of the heart muscle (myocarditis)
      * Lung tissue death (pulmonary infarction)
      * Muscular dystrophies
      * Myopathy
      * Rhabdomyolysis

Other conditions that may give positive test results include:

      * Hypothyroidism
      * Hyperthyroidism
      * Pericarditis following a heart attack

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Considerations

Other tests should be done to find the exact location of muscle damage.

Factors that may affect test results include cardiac catheterization,
intramuscular injections, trauma to muscles, recent surgery, and heavy
exercise.

## Alternative Names

CPK test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Anderson JL. St segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and
complications of myocardial infarction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 73.

Carty RP, Pincus MR, Sarafraz-Yazdi E. Clinical enzymology. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Mccullough PA. Interface between renal disease and cardiovascular illness. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 98.

Nagaraju K, Gladue HS, Lundberg IE. Inflammatory diseases of muscle and other
myopathies. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 85.

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestPain_thumb.jpg)Chest Pain
_Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

