Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003566.htm    
                                Description: Aldolase is a protein (called an enzyme) that helps break down certain sugars to produce energy. It is found in high amount in muscle tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aldolase blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003566.htm

# Aldolase blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aldolase is a protein (called an enzyme) that helps break down certain sugars
to produce energy. It is found in high amount in muscle tissue.

A test can be done to measure the amount of aldolase in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be told not to eat or drink anything for 6 to 12 hours before the
test. You may be also told to avoid vigorous exercise for 12 hours before the
test. Your health care provider will tell you if it is necessary to stop
taking any medicines that may interfere with this test. Tell your provider
about all the medicines you are taking, both prescription and nonprescription.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to diagnose or monitor muscle or liver damage.

Other tests that may be ordered to check for liver damage include:

      * ALT (alanine aminotransferase) test
      * AST (aspartate aminotransferase) test

Other tests that may be ordered to check for muscle cell damage include:

      * CPK (creatine phosphokinase) test
      * LDH (lactate dehydrogenase) test

## Normal Results

Normal results range between 1.0 to 7.5 units per liter (0.02 to 0.13
microkat/L). There is a slight difference between men and women.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level may be due to:

      * Damage to skeletal muscles
      * Heart attack
      * Liver, pancreatic, or prostate cancer
      * Muscle disease such as dermatomyositis, muscular dystrophy, polymyositis
      * Swelling and inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)
      * Viral infection called mononucleosis

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Aldolase - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:113-114.

Panteghini M, Bais R. Serum enzymes. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of
Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 29.

## Review Date 10/1/2017

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
Rheumatology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

