Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001224.htm    
                                Description: Compartment syndrome is a serious condition that involves increased pressure in a muscle compartment. It can lead to muscle and nerve damage and problems with blood flow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Compartment syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001224.htm

# Compartment syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Compartment syndrome is a serious condition that involves increased pressure
in a muscle compartment. It can lead to muscle and nerve damage and problems
with blood flow.

## Causes

Thick layers of tissue, called fascia, separate groups of muscles in the arms
and legs from each other. Inside each layer of fascia is a confined space,
called a compartment. The compartment includes the muscle tissue, nerves, and
blood vessels. Fascia surrounds these structures, similar to the way in which
insulation covers wires.

Fascia do not expand. Any swelling in a compartment will lead to increased
pressure in that area. This raised pressure, presses the muscles, blood
vessels, and nerves. If this pressure is high enough, blood flow to the
compartment will be blocked. This can lead to permanent injury to the muscle
and nerves. If the pressure lasts long enough, the muscles may die and the arm
or leg will no longer work. Surgery or even amputation may be done to correct
the problem.

Acute compartment syndrome may be caused by:

      * Trauma, such as a crush injury or surgery
      * Broken bone
      * Very bruised muscle
      * Severe sprain
      * A cast or bandage that is too tight
      * Loss of blood supply due to the use of a tourniquet or positioning during surgery  

Long-term (chronic) compartment syndrome can be caused by repetitive
activities, such as running. The pressure in a compartment only increases
during that activity and goes down after the activity is stopped. This
condition is usually less limiting and does not lead to loss of function or
limb. However, the pain can limit activity and endurance.

Compartment syndrome is most common in the lower leg and forearm. It can also
occur in the hand, foot, thigh, buttocks, and upper arm.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of compartment syndrome are not easy to detect. With an acute injury,
the symptoms can become severe within a few hours.

Symptoms may include:

      * Decreased sensation, numbness, tingling, weakness of the affected area
      * Paleness of skin
      * Severe pain that doesn't go away after taking pain medicine or raising the affected area
      * Swelling or inability to move the affected part

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms, focusing on the affected area. To confirm the diagnosis, the
provider may need to measure the pressure in the compartment. This is done
using a needle placed into the body area. The needle is attached to a pressure
meter. The test is done during and after an activity that causes pain.

## Treatment

The aim of treatment is to prevent permanent damage. For acute compartment
syndrome, surgery is needed right away. Delaying surgery can lead to permanent
damage. The surgery is called fasciotomy and involves cutting the fascia and
muscle to relieve pressure.

For chronic compartment syndrome:

      * If a cast or bandage is too tight, it should be cut or loosened to relieve the pressure
      * Stopping the repetitive activity or exercise, or changing the way it's done
      * Raising the affected area above heart level to decrease swelling

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With prompt diagnosis and treatment, the outlook is excellent and the muscles
and nerves inside the compartment will recover. However, the overall outlook
is determined by the injury that led to the syndrome.

If the diagnosis is delayed, permanent nerve injury and loss of muscle
function can result. This is more common when the injured person is
unconscious or heavily sedated and cannot complain of pain. Permanent nerve
injury can occur after 12 to 24 hours of compression.

## Possible Complications

Complications include permanent injury to nerves and muscles that can
dramatically impair function.Â This is calledÂ Volkmann ischemic contractureÂ
if it occurs in the forearm.

In more severe cases, amputation may be required.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have had an injury and have severe
swelling or pain that does not improve with pain medicines.

## Prevention

There is probably no way to prevent this condition. Early diagnosis and
treatment helps prevent many of the complications.

If you wear a cast, see your provider or go to the emergency room if pain
under the cast increases, even after you have taken pain medicines and raised
the area.

## Alternative Names

Fracture - compartment syndrome; Surgery - compartment syndrome; Trauma -
compartment syndrome; Muscle bruise - compartment syndrome; Fasciotomy -
compartment syndrome

## Patient Instructions

      * Leg amputation - discharge
      * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change

## Images

      * ![Wrist anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8986t.jpg)Wrist anatomy

## References

Jobe MT. Compartment syndrome and Volkmann contracture. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Modrall JG. Compartment syndrome and its management. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA,
eds. _Rutherford's Vascular and Endovascular Surgery_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 102.

Stevanovic MV, Sharpe F. Compartment syndrome and Volkmann ischemic
contracture. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds.
_Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 51.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

