Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003185.htm    
                                Description: A contracture develops when the normally stretchy (elastic) tissues are replaced by nonstretchy (inelastic) fiber-like tissue. This tissue makes it hard to stretch the area and prevents normal movement.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Contracture deformity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003185.htm

# Contracture deformity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A contracture develops when the normally stretchy (elastic) tissues are
replaced by nonstretchy (inelastic) fiber-like tissue. This tissue makes it
hard to stretch the area and prevents normal movement.

Contractures mostly occur in the skin, the tissues underneath, and the
muscles, tendons, ligaments surrounding a joint. They affect range of motion
and function in a certain body part. Often, there is also pain.

## Causes

Contracture can be caused by any of the following:

      * Brain and nervous system disorders, such as cerebral palsy or stroke
      * Inherited disorders (such as muscular dystrophy)
      * Nerve damage
      * Reduced use (for example, from lack of mobility)
      * Severe muscle and bone injuries
      * Scarring after traumatic injury or burns 

## Home Care

Follow your health care provider's instructions for treating contracture at
home.Â Treatments may include:Â

      * Doing exercises and stretches
      * Using braces and splints

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * A contracture seems to be developing.
      * You notice a decreased ability to move a joint.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will ask about your symptoms. Questions may include, when the
symptoms began, whether or not you have pain in the affected area, and what
treatments you've had in the past.

Depending on the cause and type of contracture, you may need tests such as an
x-ray.

Treatment may include physical therapy, medicines, and orthopedic braces.
Surgery may be helpful for some types of contractures.

## Alternative Names

Deformity - contracture

## Images

      * ![Contracture deformity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9218t.jpg)Contracture deformity

## References

Campbell M, Dudek N, Trudel G. Joint contractures. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 126.

Miller RH, Azar FM, Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow injuries. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

