Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001247.htm    
                                Description: Achondrogenesis is a rare type of growth hormone deficiency in which there is a defect in the development of bone and cartilage.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Achondrogenesis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001247.htm

# Achondrogenesis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Achondrogenesis is a rare type of growth hormone deficiency in which there is
a defect in the development of bone and cartilage.

## Causes

Achondrogenesis is inherited, which means it is passed down through families.

Some types are known to be recessive, meaning both parents carry the defective
gene. The chance for a subsequent child to be affected is 25%.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Very short trunk, arms, legs, and neck
      * Head appears large in relation to the trunk
      * Small lower jaw
      * Narrow chest 

## Exams and Tests

X-rays show bone problems associated with the condition.

## Treatment

There is no current therapy. Talk to your health care provider about care
decisions.

You may want to seek genetic counseling.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is most often very poor. Many infants with achondrogenesis are
stillborn or die shortly after birth because of breathing problems related to
the abnormally small chest.

## Possible Complications

This condition is often fatal early in life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is often diagnosed on the first exam of an infant.

## References

Grant LA, Griffin N. Congenital skeletal anomalies. In: Grant LA, Griffin N,
eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology Essentials_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.10.

Hecht JT, Horton WA, Rodriguez-Buritica D. Disorders involving ion
transporters. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC,
Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 717.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Connective Tissue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PtMD_thumb.jpg)Connective Tissue
Disorders _Read more_

![Dwarfism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dwarfism_thumb.jpg)Dwarfism _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

