Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001233.htm    
                                Description: DupuytrenÂ contracture is a painless thickening and tightening (contracture) of tissue beneath the skin on the palm of the hand and fingers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dupuytren contracture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001233.htm

# Dupuytren contracture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

DupuytrenÂ contracture is a painless thickening and tightening (contracture)
of tissue beneath the skin on the palm of the hand and fingers.

## Causes

The cause is unknown. You are more likely to develop this condition if you
have a family history of it. It does not seem to be caused by occupation or
from trauma.

The condition is more common after age 40. Men are affected more often than
women. Risk factors are alcohol use, diabetes, and smoking.

## Symptoms

One or both hands may be affected. The ring finger is affected most often,
followed by the little, middle, and index fingers.

A small, nodule or lump develops in the tissue below the skin on the palm side
of the hand. Over time, it thickens into a cord-like band. Usually, there is
no pain. In rare cases, the tendons or joints become inflamed and painful.
Other possible symptoms are itching, pressure, burning, or tension.

As time passes, it becomes difficult to extend or straighten the fingers. In
severe cases, straightening them is impossible.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your hands. Diagnosis can usually be
made from the typical signs of the condition. Other tests are rarely needed.

## Treatment

If the condition is not severe, your provider may recommend exercises, warm
water baths, stretching, or splints.

Your provider may recommend treatment that involves injecting medicine or a
substance into the scarred or fibrous tissue:

      * Corticosteroid medicine relieves inflammation and pain. It also works by not allowing thickening of the tissue to get worse. In some cases, it heals the tissue completely. Several treatments are usually needed.
      * Collagenase is a substance known as an enzyme. It is injected into the thickened tissue to break it down. This treatment has been shown to be just as effective as surgery.

Surgery may be done to remove the affected tissue. Surgery is usually
recommended in severe cases when the finger can no longer be extended.
Physical therapy exercises after surgery help the hand recover normal
movement.

A procedure called aponeurotomy may be recommended. This involves inserting a
small needle into the affected area to divide and cut the thickened bands of
tissue. There is usually little pain afterward. Healing is faster than
surgery.

Radiation is another treatment option. It is used for mild cases of
contracture, when the tissue is not so thick. Radiation therapy may stop or
slow down thickening of the tissue. It is usually done only one time.

Talk to your provider about the risks and benefits of the different kinds of
treatments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder progresses at an unpredictable rate. Surgery can usually restore
normal movement to the fingers. The disease can recur within 10 years after
surgery in up to one half of cases.

## Possible Complications

Worsening of the contracture may result in deformity and loss of function of
the hand.

There is a risk of injury to blood vessels and nerves during surgery or
aponeurotomy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disorder.

Also call if you lose feeling in your finger or if you finger tips feel cold
and turn blue.

## Prevention

Awareness of risk factors may allow early detection and treatment.

## Alternative Names

Palmar fascial fibromatosis - Dupuytren; Flexion contracture - Dupuytren;
Needle aponeurotomy - Dupuytren; Needle release - Dupuytren; Percutaneous
needle fasciotomy - Dupuytren; Fasciotomy- Dupuytren; Enzyme injection -
Dupuytren; Collagenase injection - Dupuytren; Fasciotomy - enzymatic -
Dupuytren

## References

Costas B, Coleman S, Kaufman G, James R, Cohen B, Gaston RG. Efficacy and
safety of collagenase clostridium histolyticum for Dupuytren disease nodules:
a randomized controlled trial. _BMC Musculoskelet Disord_. 2017;18:374. PMCID:
5577662 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5577662.

Calandruccio JH. Dupuytren contracture. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics._ 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 75.

Eaton C. Dupuytren disease. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH,
Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 4.

Stretanski MF. Dupuytren contracture. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD,
Jr., eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Connective Tissue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PtMD_thumb.jpg)Connective Tissue
Disorders _Read more_

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

