Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001533.htm    
                                Description: Developmental coordination disorder is a childhood disorder. It leads to poor coordination and clumsiness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental coordination disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001533.htm

# Developmental coordination disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Developmental coordination disorder is a childhood disorder. It leads to poor
coordination and clumsiness.

## Causes

A small number of school-age children have some kind of developmental
coordination disorder. Children with this disorder may:

      * Have trouble holding objects
      * Have an unsteady walk
      * Run into other children
      * Trip over their own feet 

Developmental coordination disorder may occur alone or with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorderÂ (ADHD). It may also occur with other learning
disorders, such as communication disorders or disorder of written expression.

## Symptoms

Children with developmental coordination disorder have problems with motor
coordination compared to other children the same age. Some common symptoms
include:

      * Clumsiness
      * Delays in sitting up, crawling, and walking
      * Problems with sucking and swallowing during first year of life
      * Problems with gross motor coordination (for example, jumping, hopping, or standing onÂ one foot)
      * Problems with visual or fine motor coordination (for example, writing, using scissors, tying shoelaces, or tappingÂ one finger to another)

## Exams and Tests

Physical causes and other types of learning disabilities must be ruled out
before the diagnosis can be confirmed.

## Treatment

Physical education and perceptual motor training (combining movement with
tasks that require thinking, like math or reading) are the best ways to treat
coordination disorder. Using a computer to take notes may help children who
have trouble writing.

Children with developmental coordination disorder are more likely to be
overweight than other children their age. Encouraging physical activity is
important to prevent obesity.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a child does depends on the severity of the disorder. The disorder
does not get worse over time. It most oftenÂ continues into adulthood.

## Possible Complications

Developmental coordination disorder can lead to:

      * Learning problems
      * Low self-esteem resulting from poor ability at sports and teasing by other children
      * Repeated injuries
      * Weight gain as a result of not wanting to participate in physical activities, such as sports 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you are concerned about your child's
development.

## Prevention

Families who are affected by this condition should try to recognize problems
early and have them treated. Early treatment will lead to future success.

## References

Nass R, Sidhu R, Ross G. Autism and other developmental disabilities. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 90.

Raviola GJ, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Autism spectrum disorder. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

Szklut SE, Philibert DB. Learning disabilities and developmental coordination
disorder. In: Umphred DA, Burton GU, Lazaro RT, Roller ML, eds. _Umphred's
Neurolgical Rehabilitation_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2013:chap
14.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Developmental
Disabilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DevelopmentalDisabilities_thumb.jpg)Developmental
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

