Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001249.htm    
                                Description: Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a genetic disease. It involves broad thumbs and toes, short stature, distinctive facial features, and varying degrees of intellectual disability.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001249.htm

# Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a genetic disease. It involves broad thumbs
and toes, short stature, distinctive facial features, and varying degrees of
intellectual disability.

## Causes

RTS is a rare condition. Variations in the genes _CREBBP_ and _EP300_ are seen
in some people with this condition.

Some people are missing the gene entirely. This is more typical in people with
more severe problems.

Most cases are sporadic (not passed down through families). They are likely
due to a new genetic defect that occurs either in the sperm or egg cells, or
at the time of conception.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Broadening of the thumbs and big toes
      * Constipation
      * Excess hair on body (hirsutism)
      * Heart defects, possibly requiring surgery
      * Intellectual disability
      * Seizures
      * Short stature that is noticeable after birth
      * Slow development of cognitive skills
      * Slow development of motor skills accompanied by low muscle tone 

Other signs and symptoms may include:

      * Absent or extra kidney, and other problems with kidney or bladder
      * An underdeveloped bone in the midface
      * Unsteady or stiff walking gait
      * Downward-slanted eyes
      * Low-set ears or malformed ears
      * Drooping eyelid (ptosis)
      * Cataracts
      * Coloboma (a defect in the iris of the eye)
      * Microcephaly (excessively small head)
      * Narrow, small, or recessed mouth with crowded teeth
      * Prominent or "beaked" nose
      * Thick and arched eyebrows with long eyelashes
      * Undescended testicle (cryptorchidism), or other testicular problems 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Blood tests and x-rays
may also be done.

Genetic tests can be done to determine if the genes involved in this disease
are missing or changed.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for RTS. However, the following treatments can
be used to manage problems commonly associated with the condition.

      * Surgery to repair the bones in the thumbs or toes can sometimes improve grasp or relieve discomfort.
      * Early intervention programs and special education to address developmental disabilities.
      * Referral to behavioral specialists and support groups for family members.
      * Medical treatment for heart defects, hearing loss, and eye abnormalities.
      * Treatment for constipation and gastroesophageal reflux (GERD).

## Support Groups

Rubinstein-Taybi Parents Group USA: www.rubinstein-taybi.com

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The majority of children can learn to read at an elementary level. The
majority of children have delayed motor development, but on average, they
learn to walk by 2 1/2 years of age.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on what part of the body is affected. Complications may
include:

      * Feeding problems in infants
      * Repeated ear infections and hearing loss
      * Problems with the shape of the heart
      * Abnormal heartbeat
      * Scarring of the skin 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

An appointment with a geneticist is recommended if the provider finds signs of
RTS.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is advised for couples with a family history of this
disease who are planning a pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Rubinstein syndrome, RTS

## References

Burkardt DD, Graham JM. Abnormal body size and proportion. In: Ryeritz RE,
Korf BR, Grody WW, eds. _Emery and Rimoin's Principles and Practice of Medical
Genetics and Genomics_. 7th ed. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press;
2019:chap 4.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. Developmental genetics and birth defects.
In: Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson & Thompson Genetics in
Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Stevens CA. Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. _Gene Reviews_. 2014;8. PMID: 20301699
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301699. Updated August 7, 2014. Accessed July
30, 2019.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Developmental
Disabilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DevelopmentalDisabilities_thumb.jpg)Developmental
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

