Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001116.htm    
                                Description: Williams syndrome is a rare disorder that can lead to problems with development.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Williams syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001116.htm

# Williams syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Williams syndrome is a rare disorder that can lead to problems with
development.

## Causes

Williams syndrome is caused by not having a copy of several genes. It may be
passed down in families. Parents may not have any family history of the
condition. However, people with Williams syndrome have a 50% chance of passing
the disorder on to each of their children. It often occurs randomly.

One of the 25 missing genes is the gene that produces elastin, a protein that
allows blood vessels and other tissues in the body to stretch. It is likely
that missing a copy of this gene results in the narrowing of blood vessels,
stretchy skin, and flexible joints seen in this condition.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Williams syndrome are:

      * Delayed speech that may later turn into strong speaking ability and strong learning by hearing
      * Developmental delay
      * Easily distracted, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
      * Feeding problems including colic, reflux, and vomiting
      * Inward bend of the small finger
      * Learning disorders
      * Mild to moderate intellectual disability
      * Personality traits including being very friendly, trusting strangers, fearing loud sounds or physical contact, and being interested in music
      * Short, compared to the rest of the person's family
      * Sunken chest

The face and mouth of someone withÂ Williams syndrome may show:

      * AÂ flattened nasal bridge with small upturned nose
      * Long ridges in the skin that run from the nose to the upper lip
      * Prominent lips with an open mouth
      * Skin that covers the inner corner of the eye
      * Partially missing teeth, defective tooth enamel, or small, widely spaced teeth 

## Exams and Tests

Signs include:

      * Narrowing of some blood vessels
      * Farsightedness
      * High blood calcium level that may cause seizures and rigid muscles
      * High blood pressure
      * Slack joints that may change to stiffness as the person gets older
      * Unusual star-like pattern in iris of the eye

Tests for Williams syndrome include:

      * Blood pressure check
      * Blood test for a missing piece of chromosome 7 (FISH test)
      * Echocardiography combined with Doppler ultrasound
      * Kidney ultrasound

## Treatment

There is no cure for Williams syndrome. Avoid taking extra calcium and vitamin
D. Treat high blood calcium, if it occurs. Blood vessel narrowing can be a
major health problem. It is treated based on how severe it is.

Physical therapy is helpful to people with joint stiffness. Developmental and
speech therapy can also help. For example, having strong verbal skills can
help make up for other weaknesses. Other treatments are based on the person's
symptoms.

It can help to have treatment coordinated by a geneticist who is experienced
with Williams syndrome.

## Support Groups

A support group can be helpful for emotional support and for giving and
receiving practical advice. The following organization provides additional
information about Williams syndrome:

Williams Syndrome Association -- williams-syndrome.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

About 75% ofÂ people with Williams syndrome have some intellectual disability.

Most people will not live as long as normal due to the various medical issues
and other possible complications.

Most people require full-time caregivers and often live in supervised group
homes.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Calcium deposits in the kidney and other kidney problems
      * Death (in rare cases from anesthesia)
      * Heart failure due to narrowed blood vessels
      * Pain in the abdomen 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Many of the symptoms and signs of Williams syndrome may not be obvious at
birth. Call your health care provider if your child has features similar to
those of Williams syndrome. Seek genetic counseling if you have a family
history of Williams syndrome.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent the genetic problem that causes Williams
syndrome. Prenatal testing is available for couples with a family history of
Williams syndrome who wish to conceive.

## Alternative Names

Williams-Beuren syndrome

## Images

      * ![Low nasal bridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17243t.jpg)Low nasal bridge
      * ![Chromosomes and DNA](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8770t.jpg)Chromosomes and DNA

## References

Morris CA. Williams syndrome. In: Pagon RA, Adam MP, Ardinger HH, et al, eds.
_GeneReviews_. University of Washington, Seattle, WA.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1249/. Updated March 23, 2017. Accessed December
27, 2017.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Developmental
Disabilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DevelopmentalDisabilities_thumb.jpg)Developmental
Disabilities _Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

