Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001593.htm    
                                Description: Cri du chat syndrome is a group of symptoms that result from missing a piece of chromosome number 5. The syndrome    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cri du chat syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001593.htm

# Cri du chat syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cri du chat syndrome is a group of symptoms that result from missing a piece
of chromosome number 5. The syndrome's name is based on the infant's cry,
which is high-pitched and sounds like a cat.

## Causes

Cri du chat syndrome is rare. It is caused by a missing piece of chromosome 5.

Most cases are believed to occur during the development of the egg or sperm. A
small number of cases occur when a parent passes a different, rearranged form
of the chromosome to their child.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Cry that is high-pitched and may sound like a cat
      * Downward slant to the eyes
      * Epicanthal folds, an extra fold of skin over the inner corner of the eye
      * Low birth weight and slow growth
      * Low-set or abnormally shaped ears
      * Hearing loss
      * Heart defects
      * Intellectual disability
      * Partial webbing or fusing of fingers or toes
      * Curvature of the spine (scoliosis)
      * Single line in the palm of the hand
      * Skin tags just in front of the ear
      * Slow or incomplete development of motor skills
      * Small head (microcephaly)
      * Small jaw (micrognathia)
      * Wide-set eyes

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

      * Inguinal hernia
      * Diastasis recti (separation of the muscles in the belly area)
      * Low muscle tone
      * Characteristic facial features

Genetic tests can show a missing part of chromosome 5. Skull x-ray may reveal
any problems with the shape of the base of the skull.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment. Your provider will suggest ways to treat or
manage the symptoms.

Parents of a child with this syndrome should have genetic counseling and
testing to determine if one parent has a change in chromosome 5.

## Support Groups

5P- Society -- fivepminus.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Intellectual disability is common. One half of children with this syndrome
learn enough verbal skills to communicate. The cat-like cry becomes less
noticeable over time.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the amount of intellectual disability and physical
problems. Symptoms may affect the person's ability to care for themselves.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This syndrome is most often diagnosed at birth. Your provider will discuss
your baby's symptoms with you. It is important to continue regular visits with
the child's providers after leaving the hospital.

Genetic counseling and testing is recommended for all people with a family
history of this syndrome.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Couples with a family history of this syndrome
who wish to become pregnant may consider genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

Chromosome 5p deletion syndrome; 5p minus syndrome; Cat cry syndrome

## References

Bacino CA, Lee B. Cytogenetics. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 98.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Developmental
Disabilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DevelopmentalDisabilities_thumb.jpg)Developmental
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

