Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001523.htm    
                                Description: Intellectual disability is a condition diagnosed before age 18 that includes below-average intellectual function and a lack of skills necessary for daily living.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intellectual disability

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001523.htm

# Intellectual disability

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intellectual disability is a condition diagnosed before age 18 that includes
below-average intellectual function and a lack of skills necessary for daily
living.

In the past, the term mental retardation was used to describe this condition.
This term is no longer used.

## Causes

Intellectual disability affects about 1% to 3% of the population. There are
many causes of intellectual disability, but doctors find a specific reason in
only 25% of cases.

Risk factors are related to the causes. Causes of intellectual disability can
include:

      * Infections (present at birth or occurring after birth)
      * Chromosomal abnormalities (such as Down syndrome)
      * Environmental
      * Metabolic (such as hyperbilirubinemia, or very high bilirubin levels in babies)
      * Nutritional (such as malnutrition)
      * Toxic (intrauterine exposure to alcohol, cocaine, amphetamines, and other drugs)
      * Trauma (before and after birth)
      * Unexplained (doctors do not know the reason for the person's intellectual disability) 

## Symptoms

As a family, you may suspect your child has an intellectual disability when
your child has any of the following:

      * Lack of or slow development of motor skills, language skills, and self-help skills, especially when compared to peers
      * Failure to grow intellectually or continued infant-like behavior
      * Lack of curiosity
      * Problems keeping up in school
      * Failure to adapt (adjust to new situations)
      * Difficulty understanding and following social rules 

Signs of intellectual disability can range from mild to severe.

## Exams and Tests

Developmental tests are often used to assess the child:

      * Abnormal Denver developmental screening test
      * Adaptive Behavior score below average
      * Development way below that of peers
      * Intelligence quotient (IQ) score below 70 on a standardized IQ test 

## Treatment

Goal of treatment is to develop the person's potential to the fullest. Special
education and training may begin as early as infancy. This includes social
skills to help the person function as normally as possible.

It is important for a specialist to evaluate the person for other physical and
mental health problems. People with intellectual disability are often helped
with behavioral counseling.

Discuss your child's treatment and support options with your health care
provider or social worker so that you can help your child reach their full
potential.

## Support Groups

These resources may provide more information:

      * American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities -- aaidd.org
      * The Arc -- www.thearc.org
      * National Association for Down Syndrome -- www.nads.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on:

      * Severity and cause of the intellectual disability
      * Other conditions
      * Treatment and therapies 

Many people lead productive lives and learn to function on their own. Others
need a structured environment to be most successful.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have any concerns about your child's development
      * You notice that your child's motor or language skills are not developing normally
      * Your child has other disorders that need treatment

## Prevention

**Genetic.** Genetic counseling and screening during pregnancy can help
parents understand risks and make plans and decisions.

 **Social.** Nutrition programs can reduce disability associated with
malnutrition. Early intervention in situations involving abuse and poverty
will also help.

 **Toxic.** Preventing exposure to lead, mercury, and other toxins reduces the
risk of disability. Teaching women about the risks of alcohol and drugs during
pregnancy can also help reduce risk.

 **Infectious diseases.** Certain infections can lead to intellectual
disability. Preventing these diseases reduces the risk. For example, rubella
syndrome can be prevented through vaccination. Avoiding exposure to cat feces
that can cause toxoplasmosis during pregnancy helps reduce disability from
this infection.

## Alternative Names

Intellectual developmental disorder; Mental retardation

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Intellectual disability. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:33-41.

Shapiro BK, O'Neill ME. Developmental delay and intellectual disability. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 53.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Developmental
Disabilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DevelopmentalDisabilities_thumb.jpg)Developmental
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

