Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000299.htm    
                                Description: Malabsorption involves problems with the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malabsorption

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000299.htm

# Malabsorption

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malabsorption involves problems with the body's ability to take in nutrients
from food.

## Causes

Many diseases can cause malabsorption. Most often, malabsorption involves
problems absorbing certain sugars, fats, proteins, or vitamins. It can also
involve an overall problem with absorbing food.

Problems or damage to the small intestine that may lead to problems absorbing
important nutrients. These include:

      * Celiac disease
      * Tropical sprue
      * Crohn disease
      * Whipple disease
      * Damage from radiation treatments
      * Overgrowth of bacteria in the small bowel
      * Parasite or tapeworm infection
      * Surgery that removes all or part of the small intestine 

Enzymes produced by the pancreas help absorb fats and other nutrients. A
decrease of these enzymes makes it harder to absorb fats and certain
nutrients. Problems with the pancreas may be caused by:

      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Infections or swelling of the pancreas
      * Trauma to the pancreas
      * Surgery to remove part of the pancreas 

Some of the other causes of malabsorption include:

      * AIDS and HIV
      * Certain medicines (tetracycline, some antacids, some medicines used to treat obesity, colchicine, acarbose, phenytoin, cholestyramine)
      * Gastrectomy and surgical treatments for obesity
      * Cholestasis
      * Chronic liver disease
      * Cow's milk protein intolerance
      * Soy milk protein intolerance 

## Symptoms

In children, current weight or rate of weight gain is often much lower than
that of other children of similar age and gender. This is called failure to
thrive. The child may not grow and develop normally.

Adults may also have failure to thrive, with weight loss, muscle wasting,
weakness, and even problems thinking.

Changes in the stools are often present, but not always.

Changes in the stools may include:

      * Bloating, cramping, and gas
      * Bulky stools
      * Chronic diarrhea
      * Fatty stools (steatorrhea)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do an exam. Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Hydrogen breath test
      * MR or CT enterography
      * Schilling test for vitamin B12 deficiency
      * Secretin stimulation test
      * Small bowel biopsy
      * Stool culture or culture of small intestine aspirate
      * Stool fat testing
      * X-rays of the small bowel or other imaging tests 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause and is aimed at relieving symptoms and ensuring
the body receives enough nutrients.

A high-calorie diet may be tried. It should supply:

      * Key vitamins and minerals, such as iron, folic acid, and vitamin B12
      * Enough carbohydrates, proteins, and fats

If needed, injections of some vitamins and minerals or special growth factors
will be given. Those with damage to the pancreas may need to take pancreatic
enzymes. Your provider will prescribe these if necessary.

Medicines to slow down the normal movement of the intestine can be tried. This
may allow food to remain in the intestine longer.

If the body is not able to absorb enough nutrients, total parenteral nutrition
(TPN) is tried. It will help you or your child get nutrition from a special
formula through a vein in the body. Your provider will select the right amount
of calories and TPN solution. Sometimes, you can also eat and drink while
getting nutrition from TPN.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on what is causing the malabsorption.

## Possible Complications

Long-term malabsorption can result in:

      * Anemia
      * Gallstones
      * Kidney stones
      * Thin and weakenedÂ bones

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of malabsorption.

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the condition causing malabsorption.

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Cystic fibrosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18135t.jpg)Cystic fibrosis
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

HÃ¶genauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

