Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000209.htm    
                                Description: Whipple disease is a rare condition that mainly affects the small intestine. This prevents the small intestines from allowing nutrients to pass into the rest of the body. This is called malabsorption.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Whipple disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000209.htm

# Whipple disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whipple disease is a rare condition that mainly affects the small intestine.
This prevents the small intestines from allowing nutrients to pass into the
rest of the body. This is called malabsorption.

## Causes

Whipple disease is caused by infection with a form of bacteria called
_Tropheryma whipplei_. The disorder mainly affects white men of middle-age.

Whipple disease is very rare. Risk factors are not known.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often start slowly. Joint pain is the most common early symptom.
Symptoms of gastrointestinal (GI) infection often occur several years later.
Other symptoms may include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Diarrhea
      * Fever
      * Darkening of skin in light-exposed areas of body  

      * Joint pain in the ankles, knees, elbows, fingers, or other areas
      * Memory loss
      * Mental changes
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

      * Enlarged lymph glands
      * Heart murmur
      * Swelling in body tissues (edema) 

Tests to diagnose Whipple disease may include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test to check for the bacteria that causeÂ the disease
      * Small bowel biopsy
      * Upper GI endoscopy (viewing the intestines with a flexible, lighted tube in a process called enteroscopy) 

This disease may also change the results of the following tests:

      * Albumin levels in the blood 
      * Unabsorbed fat in the stools (fecal fat) 
      * Intestinal absorption of a type of sugar (d-xylose absorption) 

## Treatment

People with Whipple disease need to take long-term antibiotics to cure any
infections of the brain and central nervous system. An antibiotic called
ceftriaxone is given through a vein (IV). It is followed by another antibiotic
(such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) taken by mouth for up to 1 year.

If symptoms come back during antibiotic use, the medicines may be changed.

Your provider should closely follow your progress. Symptoms of the disease can
return after you finish the treatments. People who remain malnourished will
also need to take dietary supplements.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If not treated, the condition is most often fatal. Treatment relieves symptoms
and can cure the disease.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Brain damage
      * Heart valve damage (from endocarditis)
      * Nutritional deficiencies
      * Symptoms return (which may be because of drug resistance)
      * Weight loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Joint pain that does not go away
      * Abdominal pain
      * Diarrhea

If you are being treated for Whipple disease, call your provider if:

      * Symptoms get worse or do not improve
      * Symptoms reappear
      * New symptoms develop

## Alternative Names

Intestinal lipodystrophy

## References

Maiwald M, von Herbay A, Relman DA. Whipple's disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 109.

Marth T, Schneider T. Whipple's disease. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 212.

West SG. Systemic diseases in which arthritis is a feature. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 275.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

