Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000275.htm    
                                Description: Tropical sprue is a condition that occurs in people who live in or visit tropical areas for extended periods of time. It impairs nutrients from being absorbed from the intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tropical sprue

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000275.htm

# Tropical sprue

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tropical sprue is a condition that occurs in people who live in or visit
tropical areas for extended periods of time. It impairs nutrients from being
absorbed from the intestines.

Tropical sprue (TS) is a syndrome characterized by acute or chronic diarrhea,
weight loss, and malabsorption of nutrients.

## Causes

This disease is caused by damage to the lining of the small intestine. It
comes from having too much of certain types of bacteria in the intestines.

Risk factors are:

      * Living in the tropics
      * Long periods of travel to tropical destinations 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Abdominal cramps
      * Diarrhea, worse on a high-fat diet
      * Excess gas (flatus)
      * Fatigue
      * Fever
      * Leg swelling
      * Weight loss

Symptoms may not appear for up to 10 years after leaving the tropics.

## Exams and Tests

There is no clear marker or test that clearly diagnoses this problem.

Certain tests help to confirm that poor absorption of nutrients is present:

      * D-xylsoe is a lab test to see how well the intestines absorb a simple sugar
      * Tests of the stool to see if fat is absorbed correctly
      * Blood tests to measure iron, folate, vitamin B12, or vitamin D
      * Complete blood count (CBC)

Tests that examine the small intestine may include:

      * Enteroscopy
      * Upper endoscopy
      * Biopsy of the small intestine
      * Upper GI series

## Treatment

Treatment begins with plenty of fluids and electrolytes. Replacement of
folate, iron, vitamin B12, and other nutrients may also be needed. Antibiotic
therapy with tetracycline or Bactrim is typically given for 3 to 6 months.

In most cases, oral tetracycline is not prescribed for children until after
all the permanent teeth have come in. This medicine can permanently discolor
teeth that are still forming. However, other antibiotics can be used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is good with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Vitamin and mineral deficiencies are common.

In children, sprue leads to:

      * Delay in the maturing of bones (skeletal maturation)
      * Growth failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Tropical sprue symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment.
      * You develop new symptoms.
      * You have diarrhea or other symptoms of this disorder for a long period of time, especially after spending time in the tropics. 

## Prevention

Other than avoiding living in or traveling to tropical climates, there is no
known prevention for tropical sprue.

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Ramakrishna BS. Tropical diarrhea and malabsorption. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 108.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 10/22/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

