Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001261.htm    
                                Description: High arch is an arch that is raised more than normal. The arch runs from the toes to the heel on the bottom of the foot. It is also called pes cavus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High arch

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001261.htm

# High arch

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

High arch is an arch that is raised more than normal. The arch runs from the
toes to the heel on the bottom of the foot. It is also called pes cavus.

High arch is the opposite of flat feet.

## Causes

High foot arches are much less common than flat feet. They are more likely to
be caused by a bone (orthopedic) or nerve (neurological) condition.

Unlike flat feet, highly arched feet tend to be painful. This is so because
more stress is placed on the section of the foot between the ankle and toes
(metatarsals). This condition can make it difficult to fit into shoes. People
who have high arches most often need foot support. A high arch may cause
disability.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Shortened foot length
      * Difficulty fitting shoes
      * Foot pain with walking, standing, and running (not everyone has this symptom) 

## Exams and Tests

When the person stands on the foot, the instep looks hollow. Most of the
weight is on the back and balls of the foot (metatarsals head).

Your health care provider will check to see if the high arch is flexible,
meaning it can be moved around.

Tests that may be done include:

      * X-ray of the feet
      * X-ray of the spine
      * Electromyography
      * MRI of the spine
      * Nerve conduction studies
      * Genetic testing to look for hereditary genes that can pass on to your child

## Treatment

High arches, particularly ones that are flexible or well cared for, may not
need any treatment.

Corrective shoes may help relieve pain and improve walking. This includes
changes to the shoes, such as an arch insert and a support insole.

Surgery to flatten the foot is sometimes needed in severe cases. Any nerve
problems that exist must be treated by specialists.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the condition causing high arches. In mild cases,
wearing proper shoes and arch supports may provide relief.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Chronic pain
      * Difficulty walking

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think you have foot pain related to high arches.

## Prevention

People with highly arched feet should be checked for nerve and bone
conditions. Finding these other conditions may help prevent or reduce arch
problems.

## Alternative Names

Pes cavus; High foot arch

## References

Deeney VF, Arnold J. Orthopedics. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ,
eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

Grear BJ. Neurogenic disorders. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 86.

Winell JJ, Davidson RS. The foot and toes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 674.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

