Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007761.htm    
                                Description: Foot drop is when you have difficulty lifting the front part of your foot. This may cause you to drag your foot when you walk. Foot drop, also called drop foot, can be caused by a problem with the muscles,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foot drop

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007761.htm

# Foot drop

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Foot drop is when you have difficulty lifting the front part of your foot.
This may cause you to drag your foot when you walk. Foot drop, also called
drop foot, can be caused by a problem with the muscles, nerves, or anatomy of
your foot or leg.

## Causes

Foot drop is not a condition by itself. It is a symptom of another disorder.
Foot drop can be caused by a number of health conditions.

The most common cause of foot drop is peroneal nerve injury. The peroneal
nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve. It supplies movement and sensation to
the lower leg, foot, and toes.

Conditions that affect the nerves and muscles in the body can lead to foot
drop. They include:

      * Peripheral neuropathy. Diabetes is the most common cause of peripheral neuropathy
      * Muscular dystrophy, a group of disorders that cause muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue.
      * Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is an inherited disorder that affects the peripheral nerves
      * Polio is caused by a virus, and can cause muscle weakness and paralysis 

Brain and spinal cord disorders can cause muscle weakness and paralysis and
include:

      * Stroke
      * Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
      * Multiple sclerosis

## Symptoms

Foot drop can cause problems walking. Because you can't raise the front of
your foot, you need to raise your leg higher than normal to take a step to
avoid dragging your toes or tripping. The foot may make a slapping noise as it
hits the ground. This is called a steppage gait.

Depending on the cause of foot drop, you may feel numbness or tingling on the
top of your foot or shin. Foot drop may occur in one or both feet, depending
on the cause.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam, which may show:

      * Loss of muscle control in the lower legs and feet
      * Atrophy of the foot or leg muscles
      * Difficulty lifting up the foot and toes 

Your provider may order one or more of the following tests to check your
muscles and nerves and to determine the cause:

      * Electromyography (EMG, a test of electrical activity in muscles)
      * Nerve conduction tests to see how fast electrical signals move through a peripheral nerve)
      * Imaging tests such as MRI, X-rays, CT scans
      * Nerve ultrasound
      * Blood tests

## Treatment

Treatment of foot drop depends on what is causing it. In some cases, treating
the cause will also cure foot drop. If the cause is a chronic or ongoing
illness, foot drop may be permanent.

Certain people may benefit from physical and occupational therapy.

Possible treatments include:

      * Braces, splints, or shoe inserts to help support the foot and keep it in a more normal position.
      * Physical therapy can help stretch and strengthen muscles and help you walk better.
      * Nerve stimulation may help retrain the nerves and muscles of the foot. 

Surgery may be needed to relieve pressure on the nerve or to try to repair it.
For long-term foot drop, your provider may suggest fusing the ankle or foot
bones. Or you may have tendon surgery. In this, a working tendon and attached
muscle is transferred to a different part of the foot.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you recover depends on what is causing foot drop. Foot drop will
often go away completely. If the cause is more severe, such as stroke, you may
not recover completely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have trouble walking or controlling your
foot:

      * Your toes drag on the floor while walking.
      * You have a slapping gait (walking pattern in which each step makes a slapping noise).
      * You are unable to hold up the front of your foot.
      * You have decreased sensation, numbness, or tingling in your foot or toes.
      * You have ankle or foot weakness.Â 

## Alternative Names

Peroneal nerve injury - foot drop; Foot drop palsy; Peroneal neuropathy; Drop
foot

## Images

      * ![Common peroneal nerve dysfunction](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9211t.jpg)Common peroneal nerve dysfunction

## References

Del Toro DR, Seslija D, King JC. Fibular (peroneal) neuropathy. In: Frontera
WR, Silve JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap75.

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Thompson PD, Nutt JG. Gait disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 6/7/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

