Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003183.htm    
                                Description: Pain or discomfort can be felt anywhere in the foot. You may have pain in the heel, toes, arch, instep, or bottom of foot (sole).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foot pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003183.htm

# Foot pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pain or discomfort can be felt anywhere in the foot. You may have pain in the
heel, toes, arch, instep, or bottom of foot (sole).

## Causes

Foot pain may be due to:

      * Aging
      * Being on your feet for long periods of time
      * Being overweight
      * A foot deformity that you were born with or develops later
      * Injury
      * Shoes that fit poorly or do not have much cushioning
      * Too much walking or other sports activity
      * Trauma 

The following can cause foot pain:

      * Arthritis and gout \-- Common in the big toe, which becomes red, swollen, and very tender.
      * Broken bones.
      * Bunions \-- A bump at the base of the big toe from wearing narrow-toed shoes or from abnormal bone alignment.
      * Calluses and corns \-- Thickened skin from rubbing or pressure. Calluses are on the balls of the feet or heels. Corns appear on the top of your toes.
      * Hammer toes \-- Toes that curl downward into a claw-like position.
      * Fallen arches \-- Also called flat feet.
      * Morton neuroma \-- A thickening of nerve tissue between the toes.
      * Nerve damage from diabetes.
      * Plantar fasciitis.
      * Plantar warts -- Sores on the soles of your feet due to pressure.
      * Sprains.
      * Stress fracture.
      * Nerve problems.
      * Heel spurs or Achilles tendinitis. 

## Home Care

The following steps may help relieve your foot pain:

      * Apply ice to reduce pain and swelling.
      * Keep your painful foot elevated as much as possible.
      * Reduce your activity until you feel better.
      * Wear shoes that fit your feet and are right for the activity you are doing.
      * Wear foot pads to prevent rubbing and irritation.
      * Use an over-the-counter pain medicine, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. (Talk to your health care provider first if you have a history of ulcer or liver problems.) 

Other home care steps depend on what is causing your foot pain.

The following steps can prevent foot problems and foot pain:

      * Wear comfortable, properly fitting shoes, with good arch support and cushioning.
      * Wear shoes with plenty of room around the ball of your foot and toes, a wide toe box.
      * Avoid narrow-toed shoes and high heels.
      * Wear sneakers as often as possible, especially when walking.
      * Replace running shoes frequently.
      * Warm up and cool down when exercising. Always stretch first.
      * Stretch your Achilles tendon. A tight Achilles tendon can lead to poor foot mechanics.
      * Increase your amount of exercise slowly over time to avoid putting excessive strain on your feet.
      * Lose weight if you need to.
      * Learn exercises to strengthen your feet and avoid pain. This can help flat feet and other potential foot problems. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have sudden, severe foot pain.
      * Your foot pain began following an injury, especially if your foot is bleeding or bruising, or you cannot put weight on it.
      * You have redness or swelling of the joint, an open sore or ulcer on your foot, or a fever.
      * You have pain in your foot and have diabetes or a disease that affects blood flow.
      * Your foot does not feel better after using at-home treatments for 1 to 2 weeks.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical exam. Your provider will ask questions about
your symptoms and medical history.

X-rays or MRI may be done to help your doctor diagnose the cause of your foot
pain.

Treatment depends on the exact cause of the foot pain. Treatment may include:

      * A splint or a cast, if you broke a bone
      * Shoes that protect your feet
      * Removal of plantar warts, corns, or calluses by a foot specialist
      * Orthotics, or shoe inserts
      * Physical therapy to relieve tight or overused muscles
      * Foot surgery

## Alternative Names

Pain - foot

## Images

      * ![Normal foot X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19665t.jpg)Normal foot x-ray
      * ![Leg skeletal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8844t.jpg)Leg skeletal anatomy
      * ![Normal toes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10041t.jpg)Normal toes

## References

Grear BJ. Disorders of tendons and fascia and adolescent and adult pes planus.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics._
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 82.

Irwin TA. Tendon injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 117.

Kadakia AR. Heel pain and plantar fasciitis: hindfoot conditions. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 119.

Molloy A, Selvan D. Ligamentous injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 116.

Perera A, Mason L. Forefoot problems in sport. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 120.

Price MD, Chiodo CP. Foot and ankle pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel
SE, McInnes IB, OâDell JR, eds. Kelley and _Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

