Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001262.htm    
                                Description: Flat feet (pes planus) refer to a change in foot shape in which the foot does not have a normal arch when standing.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Flat feet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001262.htm

# Flat feet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Flat feet (pes planus) refer to a change in foot shape in which the foot does
not have a normal arch when standing.

## Causes

Flat feet are a common condition. The condition is normal in infants and
toddlers.

Flat feet occur because the tissues holding the joints in the foot together
(called tendons) are loose.

The tissues tighten and form an arch as children grow older. This will take
place by the time the child is 2 or 3 years old. Most people have normal
arches by the time they are adults. However, the arch may never form in some
people.

Some hereditary conditions cause loose tendons.

      * Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome
      * Marfan Syndrome

People born with these conditions may have flat feet.

Aging, injuries, or illness may harm the tendons and cause flat feet to
develop in a person who has already formed arches. This type of flat foot may
occur only on one side.

Rarely, painful flat feet in children may be caused by a condition in which
two or more of the bones in the foot grow or fuse together. This condition is
called tarsal coalition.

## Symptoms

Most flat feet do not cause pain or other problems.

Children may have foot pain, ankle pain, or lower leg pain. They should be
evaluated by a health care provider if this occurs.

Symptoms in adults may include tired or achy feet after long periods of
standing or playing sports. You also may have pain on the outside of the
ankle.

## Exams and Tests

In people with flat feet, the instep of the foot comes in contact with the
ground when standing.

To diagnose the problem, the provider will ask you to stand on your toes. If
an arch forms, the flat foot is called flexible. You will not need any more
tests or treatment.

If the arch does not form with toe-standing (called rigid flat feet), or if
there is pain, other tests may be needed, including:

      * CT scan to look at the bones in the foot
      * MRI scan to look at the tendons in the foot
      * X-ray of the foot to look for arthritis

## Treatment

Flat feet in a child do not need treatment if they are not causing pain or
walking problems.

      * Your child's feet will grow and develop the same, whether special shoes, shoe inserts, heel cups, or wedges are used.
      * Your child may walk barefoot, run or jump, or do any other activity without making the flat feet worse.

In older children and adults, flexible flat feet that do not cause pain or
walking problems do not need further treatment.

If you have pain due to flexible flat feet, the following may help:

      * An arch-support (orthotic) that you put in your shoe. You can buy this at the store or have it custom-made.
      * Special shoes.
      * Calf muscle stretches.

Rigid or painful flat feet need to be checked by a provider. The treatment
depends on the cause of the flat feet.

For tarsal coalition, treatment starts with rest and possibly a cast. Surgery
may be needed if pain does not improve.

In more severe cases, surgery may be needed to:

      * Clean or repair the tendon
      * Transfer of a tendon to restore the arch
      * Fuse joints in the foot into a corrected position

Flat feet in older adults can be treated with pain relievers, orthotics, and
sometimes surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of flat feet are painless and do not cause any problems. They will
not need treatment.

Some causes of painful flat feet can be treated without surgery. If other
treatments do not work, surgery may be needed to relieve pain in some cases.
Some conditions such as tarsal coalition may need surgery to correct the
deformity so the foot stays flexible.

Surgery often improves pain and foot function for people who need it.

## Possible Complications

Possible problems after surgery include:

      * Failure of the fused bones to heal
      * Foot deformity that does not go away
      * Infection
      * Loss of ankle movement
      * Pain that does not go away
      * Problems with shoe fit

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you experience persistent pain in your feet or your
child complains of foot pain or lower leg pain.

## Prevention

Most cases are not preventable. However, wearing well supported shoes can be
helpful.

## Alternative Names

Pes planovalgus; Fallen arches; Pronation of feet; Pes planus

## References

Grear BJ. Disorders of tendons and fascia and adolescent and adult pes planus.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 82.

Myerson MS, Kadakia AR. Correction of flatfoot deformity in the adult. In:
Myerson MS, Kadakia AR, eds. _Reconstructive Foot and Ankle Surgery:
Management of Complications_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
14.

Winell JJ, Davidson RS. The foot and toes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 674.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

