Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003461.htm    
                                Description: An extremity x-ray is an image of the hands, wrist, feet, ankle, leg, thigh, forearm humerus or upper arm, hip, shoulder or all of these areas. The term &quot;extremity&quot; often refers to a human limb.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Extremity x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003461.htm

# Extremity x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An extremity x-ray is an image of the hands, wrist, feet, ankle, leg, thigh,
forearm humerus or upper arm, hip, shoulder or all of these areas. The term
"extremity" often refers to a human limb.

X-rays are a form of radiation that passes through the body to form an image
on film. Structures that are dense (such as bone) will appear white. Air will
be black, and other structures will be shades of gray.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital radiology department or in the health care
provider's office. X-ray is done by an x-ray technologist.

You will need to hold still as the x-ray is taken. You may be asked to change
position, so more x-rays can be taken.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider if you are pregnant. Remove all jewelry from the area being
imaged.

In general, there is no discomfort. You may be slightly uncomfortable while
the leg or arm is put in place for the x-ray.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of:

      * A fracture
      * Tumor
      * Arthritis (inflammation of the joints)
      * A foreign body (such as a piece of metal)

## Normal Results

The x-ray shows normal structures for the age of the person.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Bone conditions that get worse over time (degenerative)
      * Bone tumor
      * Broken bone (fracture)
      * Dislocated bone
      * Osteomyelitis (infection) 
      * Arthritis

Other conditions for which the test may be performed:

      * Clubfoot
      * To detect foreign objects in the body 

## Risks

There is low-level radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated to
provide the smallest amount of radiation exposure needed to make the image.
Most experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits.

Pregnant women and children are more sensitive to the risks of an x-ray.

## Images

      * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray

## References

Kelly DM. Congenital anomalies of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Kim W. Imaging of extremity trauma. In: Torigian DA, Ramchandani P, eds.
_Radiology Secrets Plus._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2017:chap 45.

Laoteppitaks C. Compartment syndrome evaluation. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 54.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

