Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000553.htm    
                                Description: The metatarsal bones are the long bones in your foot that connect your ankle to your toes. A stress fracture is a break in the bone that happens with repeated injury or stress. Stress fractures are caused    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metatarsal stress fractures - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000553.htm

# Metatarsal stress fractures - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The metatarsal bones are the long bones in your foot that connect your ankle
to your toes. A stress fracture is a break in the bone that happens with
repeated injury or stress. Stress fractures are caused by overly stressing the
foot when using it in the same way repeatedly.

A stress fracture is different from an acute fracture, which is caused by a
sudden and traumatic injury.

## About Your Injury

Stress fractures of the metatarsals occur most commonly in women.

Stress fractures are more common in people who:

      * Increase their activity level suddenly.
      * Do activities that put a lot of pressure on their feet, such as running, dancing, jumping, or marching (as in the military).
      * Have a bone condition such as osteoporosis (thin, weak bones) or arthritis (inflamed joints).
      * Have a nervous system disorder that causes loss of feeling in the feet (such as nerve damage due to diabetes). 

Pain is an early sign of a metatarsal stress fracture. The pain may occur:

      * During activity, but go away with rest
      * Over a wide area of your foot 

Over time, the pain will be:

      * Present all the time
      * Stronger in one area of your foot 

The area of your foot where the fracture is may be tender when you touch it.
It may also be swollen.

## What to Expect

An x-ray may not show there is a stress fracture for up to 6 weeks after the
fracture occurs. Your health care provider may order a bone scan or MRI to
help diagnose it.

You may wear a special shoe to support your foot. If your pain is severe, you
may have a cast below your knee.

It may take 4 to 12 weeks for your foot to heal.

## Self-care at Home

It is important to rest your foot.

      * Elevate your foot to decrease swelling and pain.
      * DO NOT do the activity or exercise that caused your fracture.
      * If walking is painful, your doctor may advise you to use crutches to help support your body weight when you walk. 

## To Treat Pain

For pain, you can take over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs).

      * Examples of NSAIDs are ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin) and naproxen (such as Aleve or Naprosyn).
      * DO NOT give aspirin to children.
      * If you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding, talk with your provider before using these medicines.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle. 

## Follow-up

As you recover, your provider will examine how well your foot is healing. The
provider will tell you when you can stop using crutches or have your cast
removed. Also check with your provider about when you can start certain
activities again.

## Activity

You can return to normal activity when you can perform the activity without
pain.

When you restart an activity after a stress fracture, build up slowly. If your
foot begins to hurt, stop and rest.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have pain that does not go away or gets worse.

## Alternative Names

Broken foot bone; March fracture; March foot; Jones fracture

## References

Ishikawa SN. Fractures and dislocations of the foot. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 88.

McCormack RG, Lopez CA. Commonly encountered fractures in sports medicine. In:
Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 13.

Rose NGW, Green TJ. Ankle and foot. In: Walls RM, Hochberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

Smith MS. Metatarsal fractures. In: Eiff MP, Hatch R, eds. _Fracture
Management for Primary Care, Updated Edition_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 15.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Foot Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

