Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007286.htm    
                                Description: Morton neuroma is an injury to the nerve between the toes that causes thickening and pain. It commonly affects the nerve that travels between the 3rd and 4th toes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Morton neuroma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007286.htm

# Morton neuroma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Morton neuroma is an injury to the nerve between the toes that causes
thickening and pain. It commonly affects the nerve that travels between the
3rd and 4th toes.

## Causes

The exact cause is unknown. Doctors believe the following may play a role in
the development of this condition:

      * Wearing tight shoes and high heels
      * Abnormal positioning of toes
      * Flat feet
      * Forefoot problems, including bunions and hammer toes
      * High foot arches

Morton neuroma is more common in women than in men.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Tingling in the space between the 3rd and 4th toes
      * Toe cramping
      * Sharp, shooting, or burning pain in the ball of the foot and sometimes toes
      * Pain that increases when wearing tight shoes, high heels, or pressing on the area
      * Pain that gets worse over time 

In rare cases, nerve pain occurs in the space between the 2nd and 3rd toes.
This is not a common form of Morton neuroma, but symptoms and treatment are
similar.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose this problem by examining your
foot. Squeezing your forefoot or toes together bring on the symptoms.

A foot x-ray may be done to rule out bone problems. MRI or ultrasound can
successfully diagnose the condition.

Nerve testing (electromyography) cannot diagnose Morton neuroma. But it may be
used to rule out conditions that cause similar symptoms.

Blood tests may be done to check for inflammation-related conditions,
including certain forms of arthritis.

## Treatment

Nonsurgical treatment is tried first. Your provider may recommend any of the
following:

      * Padding and taping the toe area
      * Shoe inserts (orthotics)
      * Changes to footwear, such as wearing shoes with wider toe boxes or flat heels
      * Anti-inflammatory medicines taken by mouth or injected into the toe area
      * Nerve blocking medicines injected into the toe area
      * Other painkillers
      * Physical therapy 

Anti-inflammatories and painkillers are not recommended for long-term
treatment.

In some cases, surgery is needed to remove the thickened tissue and inflamed
nerve. This helps relieve pain and improve foot function. Numbness after
surgery is permanent.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Nonsurgical treatment does not always improve symptoms. Surgery to remove the
thickened tissue is successful in most cases.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Difficulty walking
      * Trouble with activities that put pressure on the foot, such as pressing the gas pedal while driving
      * Difficulty wearing certain types of shoes, such as high-heels

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have constant pain or tingling in your foot or toe
area.

## Prevention

Avoid ill-fitting shoes. Wear shoes with a wide toe box or flat heels.

## Alternative Names

Morton neuralgia; Morton toe syndrome; Morton entrapment; Metatarsal
neuralgia; Plantar neuralgia; Intermetatarsal neuralgia; Interdigital neuroma;
Interdigital plantar neuroma; Forefoot neuroma

## References

McGee DL. Podiatric procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds.
_Roberts & Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 51.

Shi GG. Morton's neuroma. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD Jr, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 91.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

