Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003168.htm    
                                Description: Claw foot is a deformity of the foot. The joint of the toe that is closest to the ankle is bent upward, and the other joints are bent downward. The toe looks like a claw.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Claw foot

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003168.htm

# Claw foot

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Claw foot is a deformity of the foot. The joint of the toe that is closest to
the ankle is bent upward, and the other joints are bent downward. The toe
looks like a claw.

## Considerations

Claw toes may be present at birth (congenital). The condition can also develop
later in life because of other disorders (acquired). Claw toes may be caused
by a nerve problem in the legs or a spinal cord problem. The cause is unknown
in many cases.

Most of the time, claw toes are not harmful in themselves. They may be the
first sign of a more serious disease of the nervous system.

Claw toes may cause pain and lead to calluses on the top of the toe over the
first joint, but may also be painless. The condition may create problems
fitting into shoes.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Ankle fractures or surgery
      * Cerebral palsy
      * Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease
      * Other brain and nervous system disorders
      * Rheumatoid arthritis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you think you may be getting claw toes.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do an exam to check for muscle, nerve, and spine problems.
The physical exam will most likely include extra attention to the feet and
hands.

You will be asked questions about your condition, such as:

      * When did you first notice this?
      * Did you have a previous injury?
      * Is it getting worse?
      * Does it affect both feet?
      * Do you have other symptoms at the same time?
      * Do you have any abnormal feelings in your feet?
      * Do any other family members have the same condition? 

The abnormal shape of the toe can increase pressure and cause calluses or
ulcers on your toes. You may need to wear special shoes to ease pressure. Claw
toes can also be treated surgically.

## Alternative Names

Claw toes

## Images

      * ![Claw foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9195t.jpg)Claw foot

## References

Grear BJ. Neurogenic disorders. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 86.

Murphy GA. Lesser toe abnormalities. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 83.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

