Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000571.htm    
                                Description: You were treated for a broken bone in your foot. The bone that was broken is called the metatarsal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metatarsal fracture (acute) - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000571.htm

# Metatarsal fracture (acute) - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were treated for a broken bone in your foot. The bone that was broken is
called the metatarsal.

At home, be sure to follow your doctor's instructions on how to take care of
your broken foot so that it heals well.

## What is a Metatarsal Fracture?

The metatarsal bones are the long bones in your foot that connect your ankle
to your toes. They also help you balance when you stand and walk.

A sudden blow or severe twist of your foot, or overuse, can cause a break, or
acute (sudden) fracture, in one of the bones.

## More About Your Injury

There are five metatarsal bones in your foot. The 5th metatarsal is the outer
bone that connects to your little toe. It is the most commonly fractured
metatarsal bone.

A common type of break in the part of your 5th metatarsal bone closest to the
ankle is called a Jones fracture. This area of the bone has low blood flow.
This makes healing difficult.

An avulsion fracture occurs when a tendon pulls a piece of bone away from the
rest of the bone. An avulsion fracture on the 5th metatarsal bone is called a
"dancer's fracture."

## What to Expect

If your bones are still aligned (meaning that the broken ends meet), you will
probably wear a cast or splint for 6 to 8 weeks.

      * You may be told not to put weight on your foot. You will need crutches or other support to help you get around.
      * You may also be fitted for a special shoe or boot that may allow you to bear weight. 

If the bones are not aligned, you may need surgery. A bone doctor (orthopedic
surgeon) will do your surgery. After surgery you will wear a cast for 6 to 8
weeks.

## Relieving Your Symptoms

You can decrease swelling by:

      * Resting and not putting weight on your foot
      * Elevating your foot 

Make an ice pack by putting ice in a plastic bag and wrapping a cloth around
it.

      * DO NOT put the bag of ice directly on your skin. Cold from the ice could damage your skin.
      * Ice your foot for about 20 minutes every hour while awake for the first 48 hours, then 2 to 3 times a day. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, and others) or naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn, and others).

      * DO NOT use these medicines for the first 24 hours after your injury. They may increase the risk of bleeding.
      * Talk with your health care provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or more than your provider tells you to take. 

## Activity

As you recover, your provider will instruct you to begin moving your foot.
This may be as soon as 3 weeks or as long 8 weeks after your injury.

When you restart an activity after a fracture, build up slowly. If your foot
begins to hurt, stop and rest.

Some exercises you can do to help increase your foot mobility and strength
are:

      * Write the alphabet in the air or on the floor with your toes.
      * Point your toes up and down, then spread them out and curl them up. Hold each position for a few seconds.
      * Put a cloth on the floor. Use your toes to slowly pull the cloth toward you while you keep your heel on the floor. 

## Follow-up

As you recover, your provider will check how well your foot is healing. You
will be told when you can:

      * Stop using crutches
      * Have your cast removed
      * Start doing your normal activities again 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of these symptoms:

      * Swelling, pain, numbness, or tingling in your leg, ankle, or foot that becomes worse
      * Your leg or foot turns purple
      * Fever 

## Alternative Names

Broken foot - metatarsal; Jones fracture; Dancer's fracture; Foot fracture

## References

Ishikawa SN. Fractures and dislocations of the foot. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 88.

Richter M, Kwon JY, DiGiovanni CW. Foot injuries. In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB,
Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management, and
Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 67.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Foot Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

