Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007480.htm    
                                Description: Methamphetamine is a stimulant drug. A strong form of the drug is illegally sold on the streets. A much weaker form of the drug is used to treat narcolepsy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Methamphetamine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007480.htm

# Methamphetamine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Methamphetamine is a stimulant drug. A strong form of the drug is illegally
sold on the streets. A much weaker form of the drug is used to treat
narcolepsy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This weaker
form is sold as a prescription. Medicines that are legally used to treat cold
symptoms, such as decongestants, can be made into methamphetamines. Other
related compounds include MDMA, ('ecstasy', 'Molly,' 'E'), MDEA, ('Eve'), and
MDA, ('Sally,' 'sass').

This article focuses on the illegal street drug. The street drug is usually a
white crystal-like powder, called "crystal meth." This powder can be snorted
up the nose, smoked, swallowed, or dissolved and injected into a vein.

A methamphetamine overdose may be acute (sudden) or chronic (long-term).

      * An acute methamphetamine overdose occurs when someone takes this drug by accident or on purpose and has side effects. These side effects can be life threatening.
      * A chronic methamphetamine overdose refers to the health effects in someone who uses the drug on a regular basis. 

Injuries during illegal methamphetamine production or police raids include
exposure to dangerous chemicals, as well as burns and explosions. All of these
can cause serious, life-threatening injuries and conditions.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual overdose. If you have an overdose, you should call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at
1-800-222-1222.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Methamphetamine

## Where Found

Methamphetamine is a common, illegal, drug sold on the streets. It may be
called meth, crank, speed, crystal meth, and ice.

A much weaker form of methamphetamine is sold as a prescription with the brand
name Desoxyn. It is sometimes used to treat narcolepsy. Adderall, a brand name
drug containing amphetamine, is used to treat ADHD.

## Symptoms

Methamphetamine most often causes a general feeling of wellness (euphoria)
that is most often called a "rush." Other symptoms are increased heart rate,
increased blood pressure, and large, wide pupils.

If you take a large amount of the drug, you will be at higher risk for more
dangerous side effects, including:

      * Agitation
      * Chest pain
      * Coma or unresponsiveness (in extreme cases)
      * Heart attack
      * Irregular or stopped heartbeat 
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Very high body temperature
      * Kidney damage and possibly kidney failure
      * Paranoia
      * Seizures
      * Severe stomach pain
      * Stroke

Long-term use of methamphetamine can lead to significant psychological
problems, including:

      * Delusional behavior
      * Extreme paranoia
      * Major mood swings
      * Insomnia (severe inability to sleep)

Other symptoms may include:

      * Missing and rotted teeth (called "meth mouth")
      * Repeated infections
      * Severe weight loss
      * Skin sores (abscesses or boils)

The length of time methamphetamines stay active can be much longer than for
cocaine and other stimulants. Some paranoid delusions can last for 15 hours.

## Home Care

If you believe someone has taken methamphetamine and they are having bad
symptoms, get them medical help right away. Take extreme caution around them,
especially if they appear to be extremely excited or paranoid.

If they are having a seizure, gently hold the back of their head to prevent
injury. If possible, turn their head to the side in case they vomit. DO NOT
try to stop their arms and legs from shaking, or put anything in their mouth.

## Before Calling Emergency

Before you call for emergency help, have this information ready, if possible:

      * Person's approximate age and weight 
      * How much of the drug was taken? 
      * How was the drug taken? (For example, was it smoked or snorted?) 
      * How long has it been since the person took the drug? 

If the patient is actively having a seizure, becoming violent, or having
difficulty breathing, do not delay. Call your local emergency number (such as
911).

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

      * Activated charcoal and laxative, if the drug was recently taken by mouth.
      * Blood and urine tests.
      * Breathing support, including oxygen. If needed, the person may be placed on a breathing machine with a tube through the mouth into the throat.
      * Chest x-ray if the person had vomiting or abnormal breathing.
      * CT (computerized tomography) scan (a type of advanced imaging) of the head, if head injury is suspected.
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
      * Intravenous fluids (through a vein) medicines to treat symptoms such as pain, anxiety, agitation, nausea, seizures, and high blood pressure.
      * Poison and drug (toxicology) screening.
      * Other medicines or treatments for heart, brain, muscle, and kidney complications.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of drug they took and how quickly
they were treated. The faster a person gets medical help, the better the
chance for recovery.

Psychosis and paranoia may last up to 1 year, even with aggressive medical
treatment. Memory loss and difficulty sleeping may be permanent. Skin changes
and tooth loss are permanent unless the person has cosmetic surgery to correct
the problems. Further disability may occur if the person had a heart attack or
a stroke. These can happen if the drug caused very high blood pressure and
body temperatures. Infections and other complications in organs such as the
heart, brain, kidneys, liver, and spine, may occur as a result of injection.
There may be permanent damage to the organs even if the person receives
treatment. The antibiotics used to treat these infections may also result in
complications.

The long-term outlook depends on what organs are affected. Permanent damage
may occur, which may cause:

      * Seizures, stroke, and paralysis
      * Chronic anxiety and psychosis (severe mental disorders)
      * Decreased mental functioning
      * Heart problems
      * Kidney failure that requires dialysis (kidney machine)
      * Destruction of muscles, which can lead to amputation 

A large methamphetamine overdose can cause death.

## Alternative Names

Intoxication - amphetamines; Intoxication - uppers; Amphetamine intoxication;
Uppers overdose; Overdose - methamphetamine; Crank overdose; Meth overdose;
Crystal meth overdose; Speed overdose; Ice overdose; MDMA overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Amphetamines. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:308-323.

Brust JCM. Effects of drug abuse on the nervous system. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Little M. Toxicology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services / Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Methamphetamine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Methamphetamine_thumb.jpg)Methamphetamine
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

