Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000629.htm    
                                Description: Most women will remain in the hospital for 24 hours after delivery. This is important time for you to rest, bond with your new baby and to get help with breastfeeding and newborn care.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

After vaginal delivery - in the hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000629.htm

# After vaginal delivery - in the hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most women will remain in the hospital for 24 hours after delivery. This is
important time for you to rest, bond with your new baby and to get help with
breastfeeding and newborn care.

## What to Expect after Delivery

Right after delivery, your baby will likely be placed on your chest while a
nurse evaluates your baby's transition. Transition is the period after birth
when your baby's body is adjusting to being outside your womb. Some babies may
need oxygen or extra nursing care to transition. A small number may need to be
transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit for extra care. However, most
new babies stay in the room with their mother.

In the first hours after delivery, hold your baby and attempt skin-to-skin
contact. This helps ensure optimal bonding and the smoothest possible
transition. If you are planning to breastfeed, which is highly recommended,
your baby will likely try to latch on.

During this time, you will stay in the room where you had your baby. A nurse
will:

      * Monitor your blood pressure, heart rate, and the amount of vaginal bleeding
      * Check to make sure your uterus is becoming firmer

## Contractions, Bleeding, and Pain

Once you deliver, the heavy contractions are over. But your uterus still needs
to contract to shrink back to its normal size and prevent heavy bleeding.
Breastfeeding also helps the uterus contract. These contractions may be
somewhat painful but they are important.

As your uterus becomes firmer and smaller, you are less likely to have heavier
bleeding. Blood flow should gradually decrease during your first day. You may
notice a few smaller clots passing when your nurse presses on your uterus to
check it.

For some women, the bleeding does not slow down and may even become heavier.
This may be caused by a small piece of placenta that remains in the lining of
your uterus. Rarely a minor surgery is needed to remove it.

## Care of the Vagina and Perineum

The area between your vagina and rectum is called the perineum. Even if you
did not have a tear or an episiotomy, the area may be swollen and somewhat
tender.

To relieve pain or discomfort:

      * Ask your nurses to apply ice packs right after you give birth. Using ice packs in the first 24 hours after birth decreases the swelling and helps with the pain.
      * Take warm baths, but wait until 24 hours after you have given birth. Also, use clean linens and towels and make sure the bathtub is clean each time you use it.
      * Take medicine like ibuprofen to relieve pain.

Some women are worried about bowel movements after delivery. You may receive
stool softeners.

Passing urine may hurt during the first day. Most often this discomfort goes
away in a day or so.

## Caring for Your Baby

Holding and caring for your new infant is exciting. Most women feel that it
makes up for the long journey of pregnancy and the pain and discomfort of
labor. Nurses and breastfeeding specialists are available to answer questions
and help you.

Keeping your baby in the room with you helps you to bond with your new family
member. If the baby must go to the nursery for health reasons, use this time
and rest as much as you can. Taking care of a newborn is a full-time job and
can be tiring.

Some women feel sadness or an emotional letdown after delivery. These feelings
are common and are nothing to feel ashamed about. Talk with your health care
provider, nurses, and partner.

## Alternative Names

After vaginal birth; Pregnancy - after vaginal delivery; Postpartum care -
after vaginal delivery

## Images

      * ![Vaginal birth - series - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19181t.jpg)Vaginal birth - series

## References

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Norwitz ER, Mahendroo M, Lye SJ. Physiology of parturition. In: Resnick R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 6.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Postpartum Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

