Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000949.htm    
                                Description: You and your baby were being taken care of at the hospital right after you gave birth. Now it    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Questions to ask your doctor about going home with your baby

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000949.htm

# Questions to ask your doctor about going home with your baby

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You and your baby were being taken care of at the hospital right after you
gave birth. Now it's time to go home with your newborn. Here are some
questions you can ask to help you be ready to care for your baby on your own.

## Questions

Is there anything I need to do before I take my baby home?

      * When is my baby's first visit with the pediatrician scheduled?
      * What is my baby's checkup schedule?
      * What vaccines will my baby need?
      * Can I schedule a visit with a lactation consultant?
      * How do I reach the doctor if I have questions?
      * Who should I contact if an emergency occurs? 

What skills do I need to care for my baby?

      * How do I comfort and settle my baby?
      * What is the best way to hold my baby?
      * What are the signs of my baby being hungry, tired, or ill?
      * How do I take my baby's temperature?
      * What over-the-counter medicines are safe to give my baby?
      * How should I give the medicines to my baby?
      * How do I care for my baby if my baby has jaundice? 

What do I need to know to care for my baby day-to-day?

      * What should I know about my baby's bowel movements?
      * How often will my baby urinate?
      * How often should I feed my baby?
      * What should I feed my baby?
      * How should I bathe my baby? How often?
      * What soaps or cleansers should I use for my baby?
      * How should I take care of the umbilical cord while bathing my baby?
      * How should I take care of my baby's circumcision?
      * How should I swaddle my baby? Is swaddling safe while my baby is sleeping?
      * How can I tell if my baby is too hot or too cold?
      * How much will my baby sleep?
      * How can I get my baby to start to sleep more at night?
      * What should I do if my baby cries a lot or won't stop crying? 

## References

Centers for disease control and prevention website. After the baby arrives.
www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/after.html. Updated October 10, 2017. Accessed March 23,
2018.

March of Dimes website. Caring for your Baby.
www.marchofdimes.org/baby/caring-for-your-baby.aspx. Accessed March 23, 2018.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Postpartum Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

