Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000483.htm    
                                Description: An episiotomy is a minor incision made during childbirth to widen the opening of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Episiotomy - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000483.htm

# Episiotomy - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An episiotomy is a minor incision made during childbirth to widen the opening
of the vagina.

A perineal tear or laceration often forms on its own during a vaginal birth.
Rarely, this tear will also involve the muscle around the anus or the rectum.
_(The last two problems are not discussed here.)_

Both episiotomies and perineal lacerations require stitches to repair and
ensure the best healing. Both are similar in recovery time and discomfort
during healing.

## What to Expect

Most women heal without problems, although it may take many weeks.

Your stitches DO NOT need to be removed. Your body will absorb them. You can
return to normal activities when you feel ready, such as light office work or
house cleaning. Wait 6 weeks before you:

      * Use tampons
      * Have sex
      * Do any other activity that might rupture (break) the stitches 

## Self-care

To relieve pain or discomfort:

      * Ask your nurse to apply ice packs right after the birth. Using ice packs in the first 24 hours after birth decreases the swelling and helps with pain.
      * Take warm baths but wait until 24 hours after you have given birth. Make sure that the bathtub is cleaned with a disinfectant before every bath.
      * Take medicine like ibuprofen to relieve pain. 

You can do many other things to help speed up the healing process, such as:

      * Use sitz baths (sit in water that covers your vulvar area) a few times a day. Wait until 24 hours after you have given birth to take a sitz bath as well. You can buy tubs in any drug store that will fit on the rim of the toilet. If you prefer, you can sit in this kind of tub instead of climbing into the bathtub.
      * Change your pads every 2 to 4 hours.
      * Keep the area around the stitches clean and dry. Pat the area dry with a clean towel after you bathe.
      * After you urinate or have a bowel movement, spray warm water over the area and pat dry with a clean towel or baby wipe. DO NOT use toilet paper. 

Take stool softeners and drink lots of water. This will prevent constipation.
Eating lots of fiber will also help. Your health care provider can suggest
foods with plenty of fiber.

Do Kegel exercises. Squeeze the muscles that you use to hold in urine for 5
minutes. Do this 10 times a day throughout the day.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Your pain gets worse.
      * You go for 4 or more days without a bowel movement.
      * You pass a blood clot larger than a walnut.
      * You have a discharge with a bad odor.
      * The wound seems to break open.

## Alternative Names

Perineal laceration - aftercare; Vaginal birth perineal tear - aftercare;
Postpartum care - episiotomy - aftercare; Labor - episiotomy aftercare;
Vaginal delivery - episiotomy aftercare

## References

Baggish MS. Episiotomy. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds. _Atlas of Pelvic
Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 81.

Kilatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth
      * Postpartum Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

