Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003335.htm    
                                Description: A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is an imaging test that uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the body. It does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

MRI

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003335.htm

# MRI

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is an imaging test that uses powerful
magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the body. It does not use
ionizing radiation (x-rays).

Single MRI images are called slices. The images can be stored on a computer or
printed on film. One exam produces dozens or sometimes hundreds of images.

Different types of MRI include:

      * Abdominal MRI
      * Cervical MRI
      * Chest MRI
      * Cranial MRI
      * Heart MRI
      * Lumbar MRI
      * Pelvic MRI
      * MRA (MR Angiography)
      * MRV (MR Venography)

## How the Test is Performed

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without zippers or snaps
(such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Certain types of metal can cause blurry
images.

You will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-shaped
scanner.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). Most of the time, the dye will be
given through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm before the test. The dye
helps the radiologist see certain areas more clearly.

Small devices, called coils, may be placed around the head, arm, or leg, or
around other areas to be studied. These help send and receive the radio waves,
and improve the quality of the images.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test lasts about 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of close spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious, or your provider may suggest an open MRI, in which the machine is not
as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

      * Artificial heart valves
      * Brain aneurysm clips
      * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
      * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
      * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
      * Recently placed artificial joints
      * Vascular stents
      * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

      * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
      * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
      * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
      * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. If you have difficulty lying still or are very
nervous, you may be given a medicine to relax you. Too much movement can blur
MRI images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can request a blanket or pillow. The
machine produces loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones that you can use to help the time
pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can resume your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

Having MRIs with other imaging methods can often help your provider make a
diagnosis.

MRI images taken after a special dye (contrast) is delivered into your body
may provide extra information about the blood vessels.

A magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA)Â is a form of magnetic resonance imaging
that creates 3-dimensional pictures of blood vessels.

## Normal Results

A normal result means the body area being studied looks normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Results depend on the part of the body being examined and the nature of the
problem. Different types of tissues send back different MRI signals. For
example, healthy tissue sends back a slightly different signal than cancerous
tissue. Consult your provider with any questions and concerns.

## Risks

MRI does not use ionizing radiation. No side effects from the magnetic fields
and radio waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions can occur but are rare. Gadolinium may be harmful to people
with kidney problems who are on dialysis. Tell your provider before the test
if you have kidney problems.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants not to work as well. The magnets can also cause a piece of
metal inside your body to move or shift.

## Alternative Names

Magnetic resonance imaging; Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging

## Images

      * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23212t.jpg)MRI scans

## References

Carpenter JP, Litt H, Gowda M. Magnetic resonance imaging and arteriography.
In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 28.

Wahl RL. Imaging. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 18.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![MRI Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRIScans_thumb.jpg)MRI Scans _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

