Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003795.htm    
                                Description: Heart magnetic resonance imaging is an imaging method that uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the heart. It does not use radiation (x-rays).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart MRI

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003795.htm

# Heart MRI

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart magnetic resonance imaging is an imaging method that uses powerful
magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the heart. It does not use
radiation (x-rays).

Single magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images are called slices. The images
can be stored on a computer or printed on film. One exam produces dozens or
sometimes hundreds of images.

The test may be done as part of a chest MRI.

## How the Test is Performed

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without metal fasteners
(such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Some types of metal can cause blurry
images or be attracted to the powerful magnet.

You will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-like tube.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). The dye is most often given
before the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye helps the
radiologist see certain areas more clearly. This is different from the dye
used for a CT scan.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of close spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious, or your provider may suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is
not as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

      * Brain aneurysm clips
      * Certain types of artificial heart valves
      * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
      * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
      * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
      * Recently placed artificial joints
      * Certain types of vascular stents
      * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

      * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
      * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
      * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
      * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

A heart MRI exam causes no pain. Some people may become anxious when inside
the scanner. If you have a hard time lying still or are very anxious, you may
be given medicine to relax. Too much movement can blur MRI images and cause
errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine produces loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You may be
given ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the scanner allows you to speak to the person operating the
exam at any time. Some MRI scanners have televisions and special headphones to
help pass the time.

There is no recovery time, unless sedation was necessary. (You will need
someone to drive you home if sedation was given.) After an MRI scan, you can
resume your normal diet, activity, and medicines, unless your provider tells
you otherwise.

## Why the Test is Performed

MRI provides detailed pictures of the heart and blood vessels from many views.
Often, it is used when more information is needed after you have had an
echocardiogram or heart CT scan. MRI is more accurate than CT scan or other
tests for certain conditions, but less accurate for others.

Heart MRI may be used to evaluate or diagnose:

      * Heart muscle damage after a heart attack
      * Birth defects of the heart
      * Heart tumors and growths
      * Weakening or other problems with the heart muscle
      * Symptoms of heart failure 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to many things, including:

      * Heart valve disorders
      * Fluid in the sac-like covering around the heart (pericardial effusion)
      * Tumor of the blood vessels or around the heart
      * Atrial myxoma or another growth or tumor in the heart
      * Congenital heart disease (heart problem that you are born with)
      * Damage or death to the heart muscle, seen after a heart attack
      * Inflammation of the heart muscle
      * Infiltration of the heart muscle by unusual substances
      * Weakening of the heart muscle, which can be caused by sarcoidosis or amyloidosis 

## Risks

There is no radiation involved in MRI. The magnetic fields and radio waves
used during the scan have not been shown to cause any significant side
effects.

Allergic reactions to the dye used during the exam are rare. The most common
type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe. The person
operating the machine will monitor your heart rate and breathing as needed.
Rare complications can occur in people with severe kidney problems.

People have been harmed in MRI machines when they did not remove metal objects
from their clothes or when metal objects were left in the room by others.

MRI is most often not recommended for traumatic injuries. Traction and life-
support equipment cannot safely enter the scanner area.

MRIs can be costly, take a long time to perform, and are sensitive to
movement.

## Alternative Names

Magnetic resonance imaging - cardiac; Magnetic resonance imaging - heart;
Nuclear magnetic resonance - cardiac; NMR - cardiac; MRI of the heart;
Cardiomyopathy - MRI; Heart failure - MRI; Congenital heart disease - MRI

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23212t.jpg)MRI scans

## References

Kramer CM, Beller GA, Hagspiel KD. Noninvasive cardiac imaging. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 56.

Kwong RY. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 17.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![MRI Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRIScans_thumb.jpg)MRI Scans _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

