Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007592.htm    
                                Description: ADHD is a problem that most often affects children. Adults may be affected as well. People with ADHD may have problems with:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medicines for ADHD

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007592.htm

# Medicines for ADHD

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

ADHD is a problem that most often affects children. Adults may be affected as
well. People with ADHD may have problems with:

      * Being able to focus
      * Being over active
      * Impulsive behavior 

Medicines can help improve symptoms of ADHD. Specific kinds of talk therapy
can also help. Work closely with your health care providers to ensure that the
treatment plan is successful.

TYPES OF MEDICINES

Stimulants are the most commonly used type of ADHD medicine. Other types of
medicines are sometimes used instead. Some medicines are taken more than one
time a day, while others are taken only once a day. Your provider will decide
which medicine is best.

Know the name and dose of each medicine you take.

FINDING THE RIGHT MEDICINE AND DOSAGE

It is important to work with your provider to make sure the right medicine is
given at the right dose.

Always take your medicine the way it was prescribed. Talk to your provider if
a medicine is not controlling symptoms, or if you are having side effects. The
dose may need to be changed, or a new medicine may need to be tried.

MEDICINE TIPS

Some medicines for ADHD wear off over the day. Taking them before going to
school or work may allow them to work when you need them the most. Your
provider will advise you on this.

Other tips are:

      * Refill your medicine before it runs out.
      * Ask your provider whether your medicine should be taken with food or when there is no food in the stomach.
      * If you are having problems paying for medicine, talk with your provider. There may be programs that provide medicines for free or at a lower cost. 

SAFETY TIPS FOR MEDICINE

Learn about the side effects of each medicine. Ask your provider what to do in
case of side effects. Call your provider if you or your child notices side
effects such as:

      * Stomach pain
      * Problems falling or staying asleep
      * Eating less or weight-loss
      * Tics or jerky movements
      * Mood changes
      * Unusual thoughts
      * Hearing or seeing things that aren't there
      * Fast heart beat 

DO NOT use supplements or herbal remedies without checking with your provider.
DO NOT use street drugs. Any of these may cause your ADHD medicines not to
work as well or have unexpected side effects.

Check with your provider about whether any other medicines should not be taken
at the same time as ADHD medicines.

MEDICINE TIPS FOR PARENTS

Regularly reinforce with your child the provider's treatment plan.

Children with ADHD often forget to take their medicines. Have your child set
up a system, such as using a pill organizer. This can remind your child to
take medicine.

Keep a close watch on possible side effects. Ask your child to tell you about
any side effects. But be aware that your child may not understand when they
are having side effects. Call the provider right away if your child does have
side effects.

Be aware of possible drug abuse. Stimulant-type ADHD medicines can be
dangerous, especially in high doses. To ensure your child uses medicines
safely:

      * Talk to your child about the dangers of drug abuse.
      * Teach your child not to share or sell their medicines.
      * Monitor your child's medicines closely. 

## References

Feldman HM, Reiff MI. Clinical practice. Attention deficit-hyperactivity
disorder in children and adolescents. _N Engl J Med_. 2014;370(9):838-846.
PMID: 24571756 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24571756.

Prince JB, Wilens TE, Spencer TJ, Biederman J. Pharmacotherapy of attention-
deficit/hyperactivity disorder across the life span. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

## Review Date 2/24/2019

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AttentionDeficitHyperactivityDisorder_thumb.jpg)Attention
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder _Read more_

![Medicines and
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MedicinesandChildren_thumb.jpg)Medicines
and Children _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

