Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000619.htm    
                                Description: Every year, many children are brought to the emergency room because they took medicine by accident. A lot of medicine is made to look and taste like candy. Children are curious and attracted to medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medicine safety and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000619.htm

# Medicine safety and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Every year, many children are brought to the emergency room because they took
medicine by accident. A lot of medicine is made to look and taste like candy.
Children are curious and attracted to medicine.

Most children find the medicine when their parent or caregiver is not looking.
You can prevent accidents by keeping medicine locked up, out of reach, and out
of sight. Be very careful if you have toddlers around.

## Keep Medicines out of Reach and Sight

Safety tips:

      * DO NOT think that a child resistant cap is enough. Children can figure out how to open bottles.
      * Put a childproof lock or catch on the cabinet with your medicines.
      * Put away medicine safely after every use.
      * Never leave medicine on the counter. Curious children will climb on a chair to reach for something that interests them.
      * DO NOT leave your medicine unattended. Children can find medicine in your bedside drawer, your handbag, or your jacket pocket.
      * Remind visitors (grandparents, babysitters, and friends) to put away their medicine. Ask them to keep purses or bags containing medicine on a high shelf, out of reach.
      * Get rid of any old or expired medicines. Call your city government and ask where you can drop off unused medicines. DO NOT flush medicines down the toilet or pour them into the sink drain. Also, DO NOT toss medicines in the trash.
      * DO NOT take your medicine in front of young children. Children like to copy you and may try to take your medicine just like you.
      * DO NOT call medicine or vitamins candy. Children like candy and will get into medicine if they think it is candy. 

## What to do if Your Child Takes Medicine

If you think your child has taken medicine, call the poison control center at
1-800-222-1222. It is open 24 hours a day.

Go to the nearest emergency room. Your child may need:

      * To be given activated charcoal. Charcoal stops the body from absorbing the medicine. It has to be given within an hour, and it does not work for every medicine.
      * To be admitted to the hospital so they can be watched closely.
      * Blood tests to see what the medicine is doing.
      * To have their heart rate, breathing rate, and blood pressure monitored.

## Preventing Medicine Mistakes

When giving medicine to your young child, follow these safety tips:

      * Use medicine made only for children. Adult medicine may be harmful to your child.
      * Read the directions. Check how much to give and how often you can give the medicine. If you are not sure what the dose is, call your child's health care provider.
      * Turn on the lights and measure medicine carefully. Measure the medicine carefully with a syringe, medicine spoon, dropper, or cup. DO NOT use spoons from your kitchen. They do not measure the medicine accurately.
      * DO NOT use expired medicines.
      * DO NOT use someone else's prescription medicine. This could be very harmful for your child. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the doctor if:

      * You believe your child has taken medicine accidentally
      * You are not sure what dose of medicine to give your child 

## Alternative Names

Medication safety; Poison control - medicine safety

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics, Healthy Children.org website. Medication
safety tips. www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-prevention/at-
home/medication-safety/Pages/Medication-Safety-Tips.aspx. Updated September
15, 2015. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Put your medicines up and
away and out of sight. www.cdc.gov/features/medicationstorage. Updated
September 10, 2018. Accessed November 9, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Where and how to dispose of unused
medicines. www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm101653.htm. Updated
September 10, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Medicines and Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

