Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001550.htm    
                                Description: Cyclothymic disorder is a mental disorder. It is a mild form of bipolar disorder (manic depressive illness), in which a person has mood swings over a period of years that go from mild depression to emotional    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cyclothymic disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001550.htm

# Cyclothymic disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cyclothymic disorder is a mental disorder. It is a mild form of bipolar
disorder (manic depressive illness), in which a person has mood swings over a
period of years that go from mild depression to emotional highs.

## Causes

The causes of cyclothymic disorder are unknown. Major depression, bipolar
disorder, and cyclothymia often occur together in families. This suggests that
these mood disorders share similar causes.

Cyclothymia usually begins early in life. Men and women are equally affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Periods (episodes) of extreme happiness and high activity or energy (hypomanic symptoms), or low mood, activity, or energy (depressive symptoms) for at least 2 years (1 or more years in children and adolescents).
      * These mood swings are less severe than with bipolar disorder or major depression.
      * Ongoing symptoms, with no more than 2 symptom-free months in a row.

## Exams and Tests

The diagnosis is usually based on your mood history. Your health care provider
may order blood and urine tests to rule out medical causes of mood swings.

## Treatment

Treatments for this disorder include mood-stabilizing medicine,
antidepressants, talk therapy, or some combination of these three treatments.

Some of the more commonly used mood stabilizers are lithium and antiseizure
medicines.

Compared with bipolar disorder, some people with cyclothymia may not respond
as well to medicines.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of living with cyclothymic disorder by joining a
support group whose members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Less than one half of people with cyclothymic disorder go on to develop
bipolar disorder. In other people, cyclothymia continues as a chronic
condition or disappears with time.

## Possible Complications

The condition can progress to bipolar disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a mental health professional if you or a loved one has alternating
periods of depression and excitement that do not go away and that affect work,
school, or social life. Seek help right away if you or a loved one is having
thoughts of suicide.

## Alternative Names

Cyclothymia; Mood disorder - cyclothymia

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Cyclothymic disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing, 2013:139-141.

Fava M, Ãstergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mood Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MoodDisorder_thumb.jpg)Mood
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

