Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003370.htm    
                                Description: CSF myelin basic protein is a test to measure the level of myelin basic protein (MBP) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF myelin basic protein

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003370.htm

# CSF myelin basic protein

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CSF myelin basic protein is a test to measure the level of myelin basic
protein (MBP) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).

CSF is a clear liquid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.

MBP is found in the material that covers many of your nerves.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of spinal fluid is needed. This is done using a lumbar puncture.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to see if myelin is breaking down. Multiple sclerosis is the
most common cause for this, but other causes may include:

      * Bleeding of the central nervous system
      * Central nervous system trauma
      * Certain brain diseases (encephalopathies)
      * Infection of the central nervous system
      * Stroke

## Normal Results

In general, there should be less than 4 ng/mL of myelin basic protein in the
CSF.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement result for this test. Some
laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Myelin basic protein levels between 4 and 8 ng/mL may be a sign of a long-term
(chronic) breakdown of myelin. It may also indicate recovery from an acute
episode of myelin breakdown.

If the myelin basic protein level is greater than 9 ng/mL, myelin is actively
breaking down.

## Images

      * ![Lumbar puncture \(spinal tap\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19078t.jpg)Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)

## References

Fabian MT, Krieger SC, Lublin FD. Multiple sclerosis and other inflammatory
demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Karcher DS, McPherson RA. Cerebrospinal, synovial, serous body fluids, and
alternative specimens. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Multiple
Sclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleSclerosis_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Sclerosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

