Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003631.htm    
                                Description: CSF oligoclonal banding is a test to look for inflammation-related proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is the clear fluid that flows in the space around the spinal cord and brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF oligoclonal banding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003631.htm

# CSF oligoclonal banding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CSF oligoclonal banding is a test to look for inflammation-related proteins in
the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is the clear fluid that flows in the space
around the spinal cord and brain.

Oligoclonal bands are proteins called immunoglobulins. The presence of these
proteins indicates inflammation of the central nervous system. The presence of
oligoclonal bands may point to a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of CSF is needed. A lumbar puncture (spinal tap) is the most common
way to collect this sample.

Other methods for collecting CSF are rarely used, but may be recommended in
some cases. They include:

      * Cisternal puncture
      * Ventricular puncture
      * Removal of CSF from a tube that is already in the CSF, such as a shunt or ventricular drain. 

After the sample is taken, it is sent to a lab for testing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test helps support the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS). However, it
does not confirm the diagnosis. Oligoclonal bands in the CSF may also be seen
in other illnesses such as:

      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection
      * Stroke

## Normal Results

Normally, one or no bands should be found in the CSF.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

There are two or more bandings found in the CSF and not in the blood. This may
be a sign of multiple sclerosis or other inflammation.

## Alternative Names

Cerebrospinal fluid - immunofixation

## Images

      * ![CSF oligoclonal banding - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15166t.jpg)CSF oligoclonal banding - series
      * ![Lumbar puncture \(spinal tap\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19078t.jpg)Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)

## References

Deluca GC, Griggs RC. Approach to the patient with neurologic disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 368.

Karcher DS, McPherson RA. Cerebrospinal, synovial, serous body fluids, and
alternative specimens. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Multiple
Sclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleSclerosis_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Sclerosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

