Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000741.htm    
                                Description: The optic nerve carries images of what the eye sees to the brain. When this nerve become swollen or inflamed, it is called optic neuritis. It may cause sudden, reduced vision in the affected eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Optic neuritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000741.htm

# Optic neuritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The optic nerve carries images of what the eye sees to the brain. When this
nerve become swollen or inflamed, it is called optic neuritis. It may cause
sudden, reduced vision in the affected eye.

## Causes

The exact cause of optic neuritis is unknown.

The optic nerve carries visual information from your eye to the brain. The
nerve can swell when it becomes suddenly inflamed. The swelling can damage
nerve fibers. This can cause short or long-term loss of vision.

Conditions that have been linked with optic neuritis include:

      * Autoimmune diseases, including lupus, sarcoidosis, and BehÃ§et disease
      * Cryptococcosis, a fungal infection
      * Bacterial infections, including tuberculosis, syphilis, Lyme disease, and meningitis
      * Viral infections, including viral encephalitis, measles, rubella, chickenpox, herpes zoster, mumps, and mononucleosis
      * Respiratory infections, including mycoplasma pneumonia and other common upper respiratory tract infections
      * Multiple sclerosis

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Loss of vision in one eye over an hour or a few hours
      * Changes in the way the pupil reacts to bright light
      * Loss of color vision
      * Pain when you move the eye 

## Exams and Tests

A complete medical exam can help rule out related diseases. Tests may include:

      * Color vision testing
      * MRI of the brain, including special images of the optic nerve
      * Visual acuity testing
      * Visual field testing
      * Examination of the optic disc using indirect ophthalmoscopy

## Treatment

Vision often returns to normal within 2 to 3 weeks with no treatment.

Corticosteroids given through a vein (IV) or taken by mouth (oral) may speed
up recovery. However, the final vision is no better with steroids than
without. Oral steroids may actually increase the chance of recurrence.

Further tests may be needed to find the cause of the neuritis. The condition
causing the problem can then be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have optic neuritis without a disease such as multiple sclerosis
have a good chance of recovery.

Optic neuritis caused by multiple sclerosis or other autoimmune diseases has a
poorer outlook. However, vision in the affected eye may still return to
normal.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Body-wide side effects from corticosteroids
      * Vision loss 

Some people who have an episode of optic neuritis will develop nerve problems
in other places in the body or develop multiple sclerosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if you have a sudden loss of vision
in one eye, especially if you have eye pain.

If you have been diagnosed with optic neuritis, call your health care provider
if:

      * Your vision decreases.
      * The pain in the eye gets worse.
      * Your symptoms do not improve within 2 to 3 weeks. 

## Alternative Names

Retro-bulbar neuritis; Multiple sclerosis - optic neuritis; Optic nerve -
optic neuritis

## Patient Instructions

      * Multiple sclerosis - discharge

## Images

      * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Calabresi PA. Multiple sclerosis and demyelinating conditions of the central
nervous system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 411.

Jacobs DA, Guercio JR, Balcer LJ. Inflammatory optic neuropathies and
neuroretinitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 9.7.

Prasad S, Balcer LJ. Abnormalities of the optic nerve and retina. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Multiple
Sclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleSclerosis_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Sclerosis _Read more_

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Optic Nerve
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

