Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000737.htm    
                                Description: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease that affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple sclerosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000737.htm

# Multiple sclerosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease that affects the brain and
spinal cord (central nervous system).

![Multiple sclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17089.jpg)

## Causes

MS affects women more than men. The disorder is most commonly diagnosed
between ages 20 to 40, but it can be seen at any age.

MS is caused by damage to the myelin sheath. This sheath is the protective
covering that surrounds nerve cells. When this nerve covering is damaged,
nerve signals slow or stop.

![Myelin and nerve
structure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9682.jpg)

The nerve damage is caused by inflammation. Inflammation occurs when the
body's own immune cells attack the nervous system. This can occur along any
area of the brain, optic nerve, and spinal cord.

It is unknown what exactly causes MS. The most common thought is that a virus
or gene defect, or both, is to blame. Environmental factors may also play a
role.

You are slightly more likely to develop this condition if you have a family
history of MS or you live in a part of the world where MS is more common.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary because the location and severity of each attack can be
different. Attacks can last for days, weeks, or months. Attacks are followed
by remissions. These are periods of reduced or no symptoms. Fever, hot baths,
sun exposure, and stress can trigger or worsen attacks.

It is common for the disease to return (relapse). The disease may also
continue to get worse without remissions.

Nerves in any part of the brain or spinal cord may be damaged. Because of
this, MS symptoms can appear in many parts of the body.

![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous
system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8679.jpg)

Muscle symptoms:

      * Loss of balance
      * Muscle spasms
      * Numbness or abnormal sensation in any area
      * Problems moving arms or legs
      * Problems walking
      * Problems with coordination and making small movements
      * Tremor in one or more arms or legs
      * Weakness in one or more arms or legs 

Bowel and bladder symptoms:

      * Constipation and stool leakage
      * Difficulty beginning to urinate
      * Frequent need to urinate
      * Strong urge to urinate
      * Urine leakage (incontinence) 

Eye symptoms:

      * Double vision
      * Eye discomfort
      * Uncontrollable eye movements
      * Vision loss (usually affects one eye at a time) 

Numbness, tingling, or pain:

      * Facial pain
      * Painful muscle spasms
      * Tingling, crawling, or burning feeling in the arms and legs 

Other brain and nerve symptoms:

      * Decreased attention span, poor judgment, and memory loss
      * Difficulty reasoning and solving problems
      * Depression or feelings of sadness
      * Dizziness and balance problems
      * Hearing loss

Sexual symptoms:

      * Problems with erections
      * Problems with vaginal lubrication 

Speech and swallowing symptoms:

      * Slurred or difficult-to-understand speech
      * Trouble chewing and swallowing 

Fatigue is a common and bothersome symptom as MS progresses. It is often worse
in the late afternoon.

## Exams and Tests

Symptoms of MS may mimic those of many other nervous system problems. MS is
diagnosed by determining if there are signs of more than one attack on the
brain or spinal cord and by ruling out other conditions.

People who have a form of MS called relapsing-remitting have a history of at
least two attacks separated by a remission.

In other people, the disease may slowly get worse in between clear attacks.
This form is called secondary progressive MS. A form with gradual progression,
but no clear attacks is called primary progressive MS.

The health care provider may suspect MS if there are decreases in the function
of two different parts of the central nervous system (such as abnormal
reflexes) at two different times.

An exam of the nervous system may show reduced nerve function in one area of
the body. Or the reduced nerve function may be spread over many parts of the
body. This may include:

      * Abnormal nerve reflexes
      * Decreased ability to move a part of the body
      * Decreased or abnormal sensation
      * Other loss of nervous system functions, such as vision 

An eye exam may show:

      * Abnormal pupil responses
      * Changes in the visual fields or eye movements
      * Decreased visual acuity
      * Problems with the inside parts of the eye
      * Rapid eye movements triggered when the eye moves 
![MRI of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19238.jpg)

Tests to diagnose MS include:

      * Blood tests to rule out other conditions that are similar to MS.
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tests, including CSF oligoclonal banding may be needed.
      * MRI scan of the brain or the spine, or both are important to help diagnose and follow MS.
      * Nerve function study (evoked potential test, such as visual evoked response) is less often used. 

## Treatment

There is no known cure for MS at this time. But, there are treatments that may
slow the disease. The goal of treatment is to stop progression, control
symptoms, and help you maintain a normal quality of life.

Medicines are often taken long-term. These include:

      * Medicines to slow the disease
      * Steroids to decrease the severity of attacks
      * Medicines to control symptoms such as muscle spasms, urinary problems, fatigue, or mood problems 

Medicines are more effective for the relapsing-remitting form than for other
forms of MS.

The following may also be helpful for people with MS:

      * Physical therapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy, and support groups
      * Assistive devices, such as wheelchairs, bed lifts, shower chairs, walkers, and wall bars
      * A planned exercise program early in the course of the disorder
      * A healthy lifestyle, with good nutrition and enough rest and relaxation
      * Avoiding fatigue, stress, temperature extremes, and illness
      * Changes in what you eat or drink if there are swallowing problems
      * Making changes around the home to prevent falls
      * Social workers or other counseling services to help you cope with the disorder and get assistance
      * Vitamin D or other supplements (talk to your provider first)
      * Complementary and alternative approaches, such as acupressure or cannabis, to help with muscle problems
      * Spinal devices can reduce pain and spasticity in the legs

## Support Groups

Living with MS may be a challenge. You can ease the stress of illness by
joining an MS support group. Sharing with others who have common experiences
and problems can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies, and is hard to predict. Although the disorder is life-long
(chronic) and incurable, life expectancy can be normal or almost normal. Most
people with MS are active and function at work with little disability.

Those who usually have the best outlook are:

      * Females
      * People who were young (less than 30 years old) when the disease started
      * People with infrequent attacks
      * People with a relapsing-remitting pattern
      * People who have limited disease on imaging studies 

The amount of disability and discomfort depends on:

      * How often and severe the attacks are
      * The part of the central nervous system that is affected by each attack 

Most people return to normal or near-normal function between attacks. Over
time, there is greater loss of function with less improvement between attacks.

## Possible Complications

MS may lead to the following:

      * Depression
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Difficulty thinking
      * Less and less ability to care for self
      * Need for indwelling catheter
      * Osteoporosis or thinning of the bones
      * Pressure sores
      * Side effects of medicines used to treat the disorder
      * Urinary tract infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop any symptoms of MS
      * Your symptoms get worse, even with treatment
      * The condition worsens to the point when home care is no longer possible 

## Alternative Names

MS; Demyelinating disease

## Patient Instructions

      * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms 
      * Constipation - self-care
      * Daily bowel care program
      * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
      * Preventing pressure ulcers
      * Swallowing problems 

## Images

      * ![Multiple sclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17089t.jpg)Multiple sclerosis
      * ![MRI of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19238t.jpg)MRI of the brain
      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Myelin and nerve structure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9682t.jpg)Myelin and nerve structure

## References

Calabresi PA, Multiple sclerosis and demyelinating conditions of the central
nervous system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 26th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 383.

Fabian MT, Krieger SC, Lublin FD. Multiple sclerosis and other inflammatory
demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Rae-Grant A, Day GS, Marrie RA, et al. Practice guideline recommendations
summary: disease-modifying therapies for adults with multiple sclerosis:
report of the Guideline Development, Dissemination, and Implementation
Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. _Neurology_.
2018;90(17):777-788. PMID: 29686116
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29686116.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Multiple
Sclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleSclerosis_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Sclerosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

