Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000129.htm    
                                Description: Your doctor has told you that you have multiple sclerosis (MS). This disease affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple sclerosis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000129.htm

# Multiple sclerosis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your doctor has told you that you have multiple sclerosis (MS). This disease
affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).

At home follow your health care provider's instructions on self-care. Use the
information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

Symptoms vary from person to person. With time, each person may have different
symptoms. For some people, symptoms last days to months, then lessen or go
away. For others, symptoms don't improve or only very little.

Over time, symptoms may get worse (progression), and it becomes harder to take
care of yourself. Some people have very little progression. Others have more
severe and rapid progression.

## Activity

Try to stay as active as you can. Ask your provider what kind of activity and
exercise are right for you. Try walking or jogging. Stationary bicycle riding
is also good exercise.

Benefits of exercise include:

      * Helps your muscles stay loose
      * Helps you keep your balance
      * Good for your heart
      * Helps you sleep better
      * Helps you have regular bowel movements 

If you have problems with spasticity, learn about what makes it worse. You or
your caregiver can learn exercises to keep muscles loose.

## Keep from Getting Overheated

Increased body temperature can make your symptoms worse. Here are some tips to
prevent overheating:

      * Exercise in the morning and the evening. Be careful not to wear too many layers of clothes.
      * When taking baths and showers, avoid water that is too hot.
      * Be careful in hot tubs or saunas. Make sure somebody is around to help you if you become overheated.
      * Keep your house cool in the summer with air conditioning.
      * Avoid hot drinks if you notice problems with swallowing, or other symptoms get worse. 

## Home Safety

Make sure your home is safe. Find out what you can do to prevent falls and
keep your bathroom safe to use.

If you are having trouble moving around in your house easily, talk with your
provider about getting help.

Your provider can refer you to a physical therapist to help with:

      * Exercises for strength and moving around
      * How to use your walker, cane, wheelchair, or other devices
      * How to set up your home to safely move around 

## Bladder Care

You may have problems starting to urinate or emptying your bladder all the
way. Your bladder may empty too often or at the wrong time. Your bladder may
become too full and you may leak urine.

To help with bladder problems, your provider may prescribe medicine. Some
people with MS need to use a urinary catheter. This is a thin tube that is
inserted into your bladder to drain urine.

Your provider may also teach you some exercises to help you strengthen your
pelvic floor muscles.

Urinary infections are common in people with MS. Learn to recognize the
symptoms, such as burning when you urinate, fever, low back pain on one side,
and a more frequent need to urinate.

DO NOT hold your urine. When you feel the urge to urinate, go to the bathroom.
When you are not at home, take note of where the nearest bathroom is.

## Bowel Care

If you have MS, you may have trouble controlling your bowels. Have a routine.
Once you find a bowel routine that works, stick with it:

      * Pick a regular time, such as after a meal or a warm bath, to try to have a bowel movement.
      * Be patient. It may take 15 to 45 minutes to have bowel movements.
      * Try gently rubbing your belly to help stool move through your colon. 

Avoid constipation:

      * Drink more fluids.
      * Stay active or become more active.
      * Eat foods with lots of fiber. 

Ask your provider about medicines you're taking that may cause constipation.
These include some medicines for depression, pain, bladder control, and muscle
spasms.

## Skin Care

If you are in a wheelchair or bed most of the day, you need to check your skin
every day for signs of pressure sores. Look closely at:

      * Heels
      * Ankles
      * Knees
      * Hips
      * Tailbone
      * Elbows
      * Shoulders and shoulder blades
      * Back of your head 

Learn how to prevent pressure sores.

## Staying Healthy

Keep up to date with your vaccinations. Get a flu shot every year. Ask your
provider if you need a pneumonia shot.

Ask your provider about other checkups you may need, such as to test your
cholesterol level, blood sugar level, and a bone scan for osteoporosis.

Eat healthy foods and keep from becoming overweight.

## Other Care

Learn to manage stress. Many people with MS feel sad or depressed at times.
Talk to friends or family about this. Ask your provider about seeing a
professional to help you with these feelings.

You may find yourself getting tired more easily than before. Pace yourself
when you do activities that may be tiring or need a lot of concentration.

Your provider may have you on different medicines to treat your MS and many of
the problems that may come with it:

      * Make sure you follow instructions. DO NOT stop taking medicines without first talking to your provider.
      * Know what to do if you miss a dose.
      * Store your medicines in a cool, dry place, and away from children. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Problems taking drugs for muscle spasms
      * Problems moving your joints (joint contracture)
      * Problems moving around or getting out of your bed or chair
      * Skin sores or redness
      * Pain that is becoming worse
      * Recent falls
      * Choking or coughing when eating
      * Signs of a bladder infection (fever, burning when you urinate, foul urine, cloudy urine, or frequent urination)

## Alternative Names

MS - discharge

## References

Fabian MT, Krieger SC, Lublin FD. Multiple sclerosis and other inflammatory
demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

National Multiple Sclerosis Society website. Living well with MS.
www.nationalmssociety.org/Living-Well-With-MS. Accessed September 5, 2018.

Schapiro RT. _Managing the Symptoms of Multiple Sclerosis_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Springer Demos; 2014.

## Read More

      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Neurogenic bladder
      * Optic neuritis
      * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms 
      * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
      * Constipation - self-care
      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * Daily bowel care program
      * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
      * Jejunostomy feeding tube 
      * Kegel exercises - self-care
      * Pressure ulcers - what to ask your doctor 
      * Preventing falls
      * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
      * Preventing pressure ulcers
      * Self catheterization - female
      * Self catheterization - male
      * Suprapubic catheter care
      * Swallowing problems 
      * Urine drainage bags
      * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist & Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of Medicine,
Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Multiple Sclerosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

