

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Environmental Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

# NCEH State Fact Sheets: Wisconsin

Minus

Related Pages

CDC 24/7: **_Saving Lives. Protecting People from Health Threats. Saving Money
through Prevention_**.

### Environmental Health

![map icon for Wisconsin](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WI.jpg)

Your environment is everything around you--the air you breathe, the water you
drink, the community around you, the places where your food is grown or
prepared, your workplace, and your home. When your environment is safe and
healthy, you are more likely to stay healthy. But when your environment
exposes you to dangerous events or toxic substances, your health can be
affected negatively.

CDC is committed to saving lives and protecting people from environmental
hazards by responding to natural and man-made disasters, supporting public
health workers, educating communities, and providing scientific knowledge. We
help maintain and improve the health of Americans by promoting a healthy
environment and preventing premature death and avoidable illness caused by
environmental and related factors. We also identify how people might be
exposed to hazardous substances in the environment and assess exposures to
determine if they are hazardous to human health. CDC invests in prevention to
improve health and save money by reducing healthcare costs. We remain
committed to maximizing the impact of every dollar entrusted to the agency.

### Funded Activities

**National Asthma Control Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Wisconsin--$364,000. A new funding announcement has been
released; FY 2014 funding information will be available later in the year.)

![Forest shore line on a lake](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WI1.jpg)

Asthma

In 2008, an estimated 497,381 adults and children in Wisconsin had asthma.

From: https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/stateprofiles/Asthma_in_WI.pdf Cdc-pdf[PDF -
481 KB]

Asthma is a common disease on the rise, with significant health disparities
and associated healthcare costs. Nearly 1 in 12 Americans (26 million) have
asthma. In the last decade, the proportion of people with asthma, grew by
nearly 15%.

CDC has been working with states for more than 10 years to implement
community-based interventions, build local coalitions, and track the impact of
the disease on the U.S. population.

The program focuses on what works to control asthma: assessing and measuring
changes in disease severity and control, using the right medications,
educating people to manage their conditions, and controlling environmental
irritants and allergens.

Even though the number of people with asthma has increased over the last 10
years, trends show that more are controlling their disease:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 1.7 million fewer people had asthma attacks in 2009.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 233,000 fewer asthma-related hospitalizations occurred in 2008, leading to $3.96 billion in savings in hospital bills.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 1,400 fewer people died of asthma in 2007.

**Environmental Public Health Tracking Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Wisconsin--$715,000. A new funding announcement has been
released; FY 2014 funding information will be available later in the year.)

The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that nearly 25% of all diseases
are caused by environmental exposures. Some of these diseases--such as cancer,
asthma, and cardiovascular disease--are the greatest killers today.

CDC's Environmental Public Health Tracking Network (Tracking Network) is a
dynamic web-based tool that tracks and reports environmental hazards and the
health problems that may be related to them.

The Tracking Network's integrated health, environmental exposure, and hazard
information is used to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Identify interventions and policies to reduce or prevent health effects from environmental exposures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Assess and research environmental links to diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Learn more about health and environmental issues in the communities where we live.

Since 2005, the Tracking Network has led to at least 160 public health
interventions that prevent or control potential health effects from
environmental exposures.

![Family sitting at a picnic table in a
park](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WI2.jpg)

Tracking

Tracking data are available on health indicators, including asthma, birth
defects, cancer, carbon monoxide poisoning, heart attacks, lead poisoning, and
reproductive outcomes. Tracking data also are available on environmental
indicators such as air and drinking water.

From: http://www.dhs.wisconsin.gov/epht/index.htmExternal

**Climate and Health Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Wisconsin--$237,000. FY 2014 funding information will be
available later in the year.)

Changes occurring in the world's climate are affecting our health and well-
being, especially among the most vulnerable of us--children, the elderly, the
poor, and people with underlying health conditions.

Climate and Health Program funding for CDC is the dedicated U.S. government
investment in preparing our nation to anticipate and adapt to the health
consequences (increased illness and death) of climate events like extreme
heat, extreme weather events, wildfires, air pollution, and insects, as well
as threats to our food and water supply safety.

CDC supports

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Identifying populations most vulnerable to these effects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anticipating future trends.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Assuring that systems are in place to detect and respond to emerging health threats.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Taking steps to assure that these health risks can be managed now and in the future.

**Lead Poisoning Prevention Program**

(FY 2011 funding for Wisconsin--$594,000; because of funding reductions, the
program was discontinued in 2012. Some funding was restored in FY 2014. States
will be recompeting for funding and more information will be available later
in the year.)

![Couple feeding ducks at a pond](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WI3.jpg)

Lead

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Of children ages 6 and under who were tested for blood lead in Wisconsin in 2011, 7,553 had blood lead levels of 5μg/dL or greater.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * *CDC's funding to state lead poisoning prevention programs was eliminated in FY 2012 because of budget reductions.

More than 12 million U.S. children are exposed to lead in their homes at
levels that can harm their intellectual development. No safe blood level in
children has been identified.

Reducing children's lead exposure is perhaps the greatest environmental health
accomplishment in the past 20 years.

For more than 20 years, CDC funded state and local health agencies to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Support surveillance, training, and technical capacity to help identify children with dangerous exposure to lead.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Connect families and children to appropriate healthcare and case management.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Inspect and remediate unsafe homes.

Children who are exposed to lead lose $3,000 to almost $8,000 in lifetime
productivity for each 1 microgram per deciliter (μg/dL) increase in blood lead
level. Blood lead levels over 1 μg/dL are associated with measurable
reductions in IQ.

Between 2007-2008 and 2009-2010, interventions that control or eliminate lead
hazards before children are exposed (primary prevention) helped reduce the
number of children exposed to lead (blood lead levels ≥ 1μg/dL) by nearly 3
million, saving $26-57 billion in lifetime productivity earnings alone. These
estimates do not account for behavioral and other adverse effects on lifetime
productivity linked to lead.

**Built Environment and Health Initiative 1**

The way we design and build our communities can affect our physical and mental
health. Public health challenges like asthma, motor vehicle-related injuries,
obesity, and heart disease are directly related to how communities are
designed and built.

CDC's Built Environment and Health Initiative is the only source of federal
expertise to help states and communities integrate health considerations into
transportation and community planning. Strategic community design can increase
physical activity, reduce injuries, improve air and water quality, and
minimize contributions to climate change.

CDC's Built Environment and Health Initiative

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Helps cities reduce health costs by supporting health impact assessments (HIAs) that recommend proven public health approaches.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Equips health departments with tools to efficiently assess their community design and health needs and build ongoing relationships with local governments or planning commissions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Provides scientific expertise to promote federal priorities like the National Prevention Strategy's focus on healthy physical environments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Provides training and assistance on how proposed projects; policies; and state, tribal, and local decisions can affect health.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tracks key environmental public health indicators related to active transportation and local and state community design data.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Conducts research to identify the links between health and community design and translates that research into best practices.

* * *

1Built Environment and Health Initiative is also known as Healthy Community
Design Initiative. https://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces

### Public Health in Action

**Asthma Prevention in Wisconsin**

Since 2002, more than 850 primary care doctors have been trained by a
partnership of the Children's Health Alliance of Wisconsin, Fight Asthma
Milwaukee Allies, the Medical College of Wisconsin, the Wisconsin Academy of
Pediatrics Foundation, the Wisconsin Asthma Coalition, and the Wisconsin
Medical Society. An allergist and a nurse took the Allergist Outreach Asthma
Education Program directly to primary care clinics for pediatricians, family
practice physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses, respiratory therapists, and
other clinical staff. Reviews of the program showed significant improvements
in severity classification, assessment of dust as a trigger, and writing a
care plan. Physicians and nurses also reported improvements in teaching
persons with asthma and in staff teamwork. Adapting to changing needs in
Wisconsin, the Allergist Outreach Program has evolved into short regional
training sessions that reach larger audiences. The American Lung Association
of the Upper Midwest has taken the Allergist Outreach Program on the road and
now conducts in-clinic and regional training sessions in Minnesota, North
Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.

**Tracking Agricultural Pesticide Use in Wisconsin**

Agriculture accounts for more than 40% of Wisconsin's economy. Health
officials in Wisconsin wanted a better understanding of the effect of
agricultural pesticide use on drinking water contamination and related health
outcomes.

The Wisconsin Tracking Program worked with the state agricultural agency to
develop a database that geographically categorizes areas of high, medium, or
low pesticide use. This tool has been used to identify environmental
contaminants that may be linked to childhood cancers. By integrating many
sources of information, it provides a better understanding of the hazard and
the potential for exposure to agricultural pesticides.

The Wisconsin Tracking Program's work significantly advances knowledge of the
potential for pesticide exposure via drinking water. It can be used to explore
associations between pesticides and such adverse health effects as cancer,
thus making regulatory data more useful for public health. The tool is a model
that can be replicated by others who want to learn about health risks related
to pesticide use.

**Climate and Health Program in Wisconsin**

CHP's current 4-year grant to Wisconsin is through the Climate-Ready States
and Cities Initiative (CRSCI). The Wisconsin Department of Health Services
(WDHS) is using the grant to build resilience against health-related climate
effects in Wisconsin communities. Specifically, WDHS is incorporating model-
based, future climate change scenarios into long range public health planning
and preparedness activities. This helps the department to identify vulnerable
populations and develop systems to detect and respond to present and future
climate-related health threats. With the help of CDC experts, WDHS is also
working directly with local agencies to assess and respond to the effects of
climate change in their communities.

The CRSCI grant follows a 3-year CHP research grant that brought together
science and public health on the issues of climate change. WDHS worked with
the University of Wisconsin-Madison, UW-Milwaukee, the Medical College of
Wisconsin, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture
to combine data on health, hydrology, and climatology to predict the
relationship of climate conditions to health risks over the next 50 years.

Studies have already shown that severe weather events will become nearly three
times more frequent in coming years. A public health leader participating in
the Wisconsin project noted, "If you're having periodic flooding events, you
can't assume they are 'once-in-100 years' events. Data modeling indicates that
this trend will only get worse." Wisconsin has already begun preparing. With
further funding, the state can move from research to planning and policy
changes that will protect people from the potentially harmful effects of
weather-related events associated with climate change.

![Hiker overlooking a valley](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WI4.jpg)

Climate and Health

Between 1950 and 2006, Wisconsin's annual average temperature increased 1.1
degrees Fahrenheit, while its annual precipitation increased 3.1 inches.

From: http://www.wicci.wisc.edu/faq.phpExternal

**Wisconsin 's Lead Poisoning Prevention Program**

In 2009, it was estimated that Wisconsin had more than 400,000 housing units
with lead paint hazards. Approximately 90% of children identified with
elevated blood lead levels live in housing units built before 1950.

The following is a description of activities carried out in in previous years
with the support of CDC's Lead Poisoning Prevention Program when it was fully
funded:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **ABLES program** - The ABLES program is a state-wide lead surveillance program that tracks laboratory-reported adult blood lead levels. The program allows the state to measure trends in adult lead exposure and target areas and occupational settings of high risk.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **Asbestos and Lead Unit** - The state's Asbestos and Lead Unit oversees the accreditation of lead training providers and certification of lead workers performing investigation and abatement activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **Wisconsin Healthy Homes and Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program (WHHCLPPP)** - WHHCLPPP supports local health departments, health care providers, and community groups to prevent, identify, and treat exposure to lead and other hazards in the home.

Local health departments provide blood lead screening, care coordination,
nursing case management, environmental management, surveillance, community
education, and early intervention services within their communities. Nurses
trained in lead prevention conduct outreach to pregnant women, identify
potential lead hazards, and train families in lead hazard reduction
techniques. WHHCLPPP provides funding and support to all 96 of Wisconsin's
local health departments for lead prevention activities. CDC also provided
funding to Milwaukee, Racine, and the Wisconsin Council on Children and
Families to implement comprehensive interventions. The Wisconsin Council on
Children and Families promotes awareness of childhood lead exposure by
providing information about lead hazards to early childhood educators,
parents, child advocates, and policy makers.

Children from low-income and refugee families are considered to be at high
risk for lead exposure within the state. WHHCLPPP targets families living in
high-risk communities and children enrolled in Medicaid and the Women,
Infants, and Children (WIC) program for screening, education, prevention, and
treatment. To target refugee children at high risk for lead exposure, WHHCLPPP
screens refugee children for blood lead levels upon their arrival in the state
and after moving into permanent housing. In 2007, over 90% of refugee children
were tested within 3 months of arrival. The state also conducts educational
sessions with refugee families, resettlement workers, and health care provider
staff about the necessity and availability of testing.

![Children running on the grass](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WI5.jpg)

Built Environment & Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Communities use CDC's tools to build infrastructure that maximizes good health.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * From 2009-2010, Wisconsin developed an HIA toolkit, and provided two trainings and three webinars for local and state agency staff on the HIA framework.

**Built Environment and Health in Wisconsin**

With support from CDC, the Wisconsin Bureau of Environmental and Occupational
Health was active in state capacity building efforts to make the built
environment healthier through HIAs. Over 74 individuals from government,
academia, advocacy organizations, agencies, local health departments, and
community partners attended the bureau's 2-day trainings on the HIA framework.
Over 81 viewers participated in the 3-part HIA Webinar series. CDC funded the
bureau's HIA pilot projects and provided technical assistance. One project
aimed to understand the health impact the remediation and stabilization the
Lincoln Park area and reconstruction of the Milwaukee River Estuary on
residents. Another project aimed to determine the health impacts of the
proposed development and expansion of the Ice Age Trail, a National Scenic
Trail, on Marquette County citizens. The bureau developed resources, including
a Wisconsin-specific HIA Online ToolkitExternal, a Working Model for HIA in
Wisconsin through feedback and input from focus groups comprised of local
health department staff, and educational materials to increase awareness of
HIA and the HIA toolkit. As a result of these activities, the bureau was
invited to a range of discussions where health had not formerly been
integrated into the decision-making processes, such as the planning process
for the Wisconsin Department of Transportation's Wisconsin Rail Plan 2030.
Furthermore, the bureau collaborated on multiple HIA-related grant proposals
with new and diverse partners.

Top of Page

View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [2M]

Page last reviewed: April 29, 2014

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Environmental Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About NCEH expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Budget Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sharing Our Stories: NCEHâs Impact on Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Overviews expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Built Environment and Health Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Climate and Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Environmental Health Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Environmental Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Environmental Public Health Tracking Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Radiation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Safe Water Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Fact Sheets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Connecticut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hawaii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Iowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Louisiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maryland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Montana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * New York
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Washington
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Wisconsin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NCEH A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NCEH Press Room expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Programs & Divisions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Division of Laboratory Sciences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Publications & Products expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Books/Booklets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Housing Reference Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Housing Inspection Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Training

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Press Room 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

