Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000063.htm    
                                Description: A heart attack is a medical emergency. Call 911 or your local emergency number if you think you or someone else is having a heart attack.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart attack first aid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000063.htm

# Heart attack first aid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart attack is a medical emergency. Call 911 or your local emergency number
if you think you or someone else is having a heart attack.

The average person waits 3 hours before seeking help for symptoms of a heart
attack. Many heart attack patients die before they reach a hospital. The
sooner the person gets to the emergency room, the better the chance of
survival. Prompt medical treatment reduces the amount of heart damage.

This article discusses what to do if you think someone may be having a heart
attack.

## Causes

A heart attack occurs when the blood flow that carries oxygen to the heart is
blocked. The heart muscle becomes starved for oxygen and begins to die.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a heart attack can vary from person to person. They may be mild or
severe. Women, older adults, and people with diabetes are more likely to have
subtle or unusual symptoms.

Symptoms in adults may include:

      * Changes in mental status, especially in older adults.
      * Chest pain that feels like pressure, squeezing, or fullness. The pain is most often in the center of the chest. It may also be felt in the jaw, shoulder, arms, back, and stomach. It can last for more than a few minutes, or come and go.
      * Cold sweat.
      * Lightheadedness.
      * Nausea (more common in women).
      * Vomiting.
      * Numbness, aching, or tingling in the arm (usually the left arm, but the right arm may be affected alone, or along with the left).
      * Shortness of breath.
      * Weakness or fatigue, especially in older adults and in women.

## First Aid

If you think someone is having a heart attack:

      * Have the person sit down, rest, and try to keep calm.
      * Loosen any tight clothing.
      * Ask if the person takes any chest pain medicine, such as nitroglycerin, for a known heart condition, and help them take it.
      * If the pain does not go away promptly with rest or within 3 minutes of taking nitroglycerin, call for emergency medical help.
      * If the person is unconscious and unresponsive, call 911 (or your local emergency number), then begin CPR.
      * If an infant or child is unconscious and unresponsive, perform 1 minute of CPR, then call 911. 

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT leave the person alone except to call for help, if necessary.
      * DO NOT allow the person to deny the symptoms and convince you not to call for emergency help.
      * DO NOT wait to see if the symptoms go away.
      * DO NOT give the person anything by mouth unless a heart medicine (such as nitroglycerin) has been prescribed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number immediately if the person:

      * Does not respond to you
      * Is not breathing
      * Has sudden chest pain or other symptoms of a heart attack

## Prevention

Adults should take steps to control heart disease risk factors whenever
possible.

      * If you smoke, quit. Smoking more than doubles the chance of developing heart disease.
      * Keep blood pressure, cholesterol, and diabetes in good control and follow your health care provider's orders.
      * Lose weight if obese or overweight.
      * Get regular exercise to improve heart health. (Talk to your provider before starting any new fitness program.)
      * Eat a heart-healthy diet. Limit saturated fats, red meat, and sugars. Increase your intake of chicken, fish, fresh fruits and vegetables, and whole grains. Your provider can help you tailor a diet specific to your needs.
      * Limit the amount of alcohol you drink. One drink a day is associated with reducing the rate of heart attacks, but two or more drinks a day can damage the heart and cause other medical problems.

## Alternative Names

First aid - heart attack; First aid - cardiopulmonary arrest; First aid -
cardiac arrest

## Images

      * ![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19191t.jpg)Heart attack symptoms
      * ![Symptoms of heart attack](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8808t.jpg)Symptoms of heart attack

## References

Bonaca MP, Sabatine MS. Approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Jneid H, Anderson JL, Wright RS, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA focused update of the
guideline for the management of patients with unstable angina/non-ST-elevation
myocardial infarction (updating the 2007 guideline and replacing the 2011
focused update): a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2012;60(7):645-681. PMID: 22809746
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22809746.

Levin GN, Bates ER, Blankenship JC, et al. 2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI focused update on
primary percutaneous coronary intervention for patients with ST-elevation
myocardial infarction: An update of the 2011 ACCF/AHA/SCAI Guideline for
percutaneous coronary intervention and the 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2016;67(10):1235-1250. PMID: 26498666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26498666.

Thomas JJ, Brady WJ. Acute coronary syndrome. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Â Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice._ Â 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 68.  
Â

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services / Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

