Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000093.htm    
                                Description: A heart attack occurs when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked long enough that part of the heart muscle is damaged or dies. Starting a regular exercise program is important to your recovery    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Being active after your heart attack

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000093.htm

# Being active after your heart attack

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart attack occurs when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked long
enough that part of the heart muscle is damaged or dies. Starting a regular
exercise program is important to your recovery after a heart attack.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had a heart attack and were in the hospital. You may have had angioplasty
and a stent placed in an artery to open a blocked artery in your heart.

## What to Expect at Home

While you were in the hospital, you should have learned:

      * How to take your pulse.
      * How to recognize your angina symptoms and what to do when they happen.
      * How to care for yourself at home after a heart attack.

Your health care provider may recommend a cardiac rehabilitation program to
you. This program will help you learn what foods to eat and exercises to do to
stay healthy. Eating well and exercising will help you start feeling healthy
again.

## Getting Started with Your Exercise

Before you start to exercise, your provider may have you do an exercise test.
You should get exercise recommendations and an exercise plan. This may happen
before you leave the hospital or soon afterward. DO NOT change your exercise
plan before talking with your provider. The amount and intensity of your
activity will depend on how active you were before the heart attack and how
severe your heart attack was.

Take it easy at first:

      * Walking is the best activity when you start exercising.
      * Walk on flat ground for a few weeks at first.
      * You can try bike riding after a few weeks. Walk your bike up any hills, or ride a stationary bike in an easy gear.
      * If it is windy, walk or bike with the breeze behind you.
      * DO NOT walk outside if it is very cold or very hot. Go to a shopping mall and do your walking inside. 

Slowly increase how long you exercise at any one time. If you are up to it,
repeat the activity 2 or 3 times during the day. You may want to try this very
easy exercise schedule (but ask your doctor first):

      * Week 1: about 5 minutes at a time
      * Week 2: about 10 minutes at a time
      * Week 3: about 15 minutes at a time
      * Week 4: about 20 minutes at a time
      * Week 5: about 25 minutes at a time
      * Week 6: about 30 minutes at a time 

After 6 weeks, you may be able to start swimming, but stay out of very cold or
very hot water. You can also begin playing golf. Start easily with just
hitting balls. Add to your golfing slowly, playing just a few holes at a time.
Avoid golfing in very hot or cold weather.

## Household Activities

You can do some things around the house to stay active, but always ask your
provider first. Avoid a lot of activity on days that are very hot or cold.
Some people will be able to do more after a heart attack. Others may have to
start more slowly. Increase your activity level gradually by following these
steps.

You may be able to cook light meals by the end of your first week. You can
wash dishes or set the table if you feel up to it.

By the end of the second week you may start doing very light housework, such
as making your bed. Go slowly.

After 4 weeks, you may be able to:

      * Iron -- start with only 5 or 10 minutes at a time
      * Shop, but do not carry heavy bags or walk too far
      * Do short periods of light yard work

By 6 weeks, your provider may allow you to do more activities, such as heavier
housework and exercise, but be careful.

      * Try not to lift or carry anything that is heavy, such as a vacuum cleaner or pail of water.
      * If any activities cause chest pain, shortness of breath, or any of the symptoms you had before or during your heart attack, stop doing them right away. Tell your provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you feel:

      * Pain, pressure, tightness, or heaviness in the chest, arm, neck, or jaw
      * Shortness of breath
      * Gas pains or indigestion
      * Numbness in your arms
      * Sweaty, or if you lose color
      * Lightheaded 

Also call if you have angina and it:

      * Becomes stronger
      * Occurs more often
      * Lasts longer
      * Occurs when you are not active
      * Does not get better when you take your medicine 

These changes may mean your heart disease is getting worse.

## Alternative Names

Heart attack - activity; MI - activity; Myocardial infarction - activity;
Cardiac rehabilitation - activity; ACS - activity; NSTEMI - activity; Acute
coronary syndrome activity

## Images

      * ![Being active after a heart attack](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22939t.jpg)Being active after a heart attack

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130:1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 61.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

Thompson PD, Ades PA. Exercise-based, comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 54.

## Read More

      * Angina
      * Chest pain
      * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * High blood cholesterol levels

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heart Attack

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

