Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003663.htm    
                                Description: The myoglobin blood test measures the level of the protein myoglobin in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myoglobin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003663.htm

# Myoglobin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The myoglobin blood test measures the level of the protein myoglobin in the
blood.

Myoglobin can also be measured with a urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Myoglobin is a protein in heart and skeletal muscles. When you exercise, your
muscles use up available oxygen. Myoglobin has oxygen attached to it, which
provides extra oxygen for the muscles to keep at a high level of activity for
a longer period.

When muscle is damaged, myoglobin in muscle cells is released into the
bloodstream. The kidneys help remove myoglobin from the blood into the urine.
When the level of myoglobin is too high, it can damage the kidneys.

This test is ordered when your health care provider suspects you have muscle
damage, most often of the skeletal muscles.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 25 to 72 ng/mL (1.28 to 3.67 nmol/L).

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
labs use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased level of myoglobin may be due to:

      * Heart attack
      * Malignant hyperthermia (very rare)
      * Disorder that causes muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue (muscular dystrophy)
      * Breakdown of muscle tissue that leads to the release of muscle fiber contents into the blood (rhabdomyolysis)
      * Skeletal muscle inflammation (myositis)
      * Skeletal muscle ischemia (oxygen deficiency)
      * Skeletal muscle trauma

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Serum myoglobin; Heart attack - myoglobin blood test; Myositis - myoglobin
blood test; Rhabdomyolysis - myoglobin blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. MyoglobinÂ - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:808-809.

Nagaraju K, Gladue HS, Lundberg IE. Inflammatory diseases of muscle and other
myopathies. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 85.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![Myositis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Myositis_thumb.jpg)Myositis _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

