Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003664.htm    
                                Description: The myoglobin urine test is done to detect the presence of myoglobin in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myoglobin urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003664.htm

# Myoglobin urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The myoglobin urine test is done to detect the presence of myoglobin in urine.

Myoglobin can also be measured with a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the health care provider may give you a special clean-
catch kit that contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow
instructions exactly so that the results are accurate.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, which should cause no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Myoglobin is a protein in heart and skeletal muscles. When you exercise, your
muscles use up available oxygen. Myoglobin has oxygen attached to it, which
provides extra oxygen for the muscles to keep up a high level of activity for
a longer period.

When muscle is damaged, myoglobin in muscle cells is released into the
bloodstream. The kidneys help remove myoglobin from the blood into the urine.
When the level of myoglobin is too high, it can damage the kidneys.

This test is ordered when your provider suspects you have muscle damage, such
as damage toÂ the heart or skeletal muscle. It may also be ordered if you have
acute kidney failure without any clear cause.

## Normal Results

A normal urine sample does not have myoglobin. A normal result is sometimes
reported as negative.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Heart attack
      * Malignant hyperthermia (very rare)
      * Disorder that causes muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue (muscular dystrophy)
      * Breakdown of muscle tissue that leads to the release of muscle fiber contents into the blood (rhabdomyolysis)
      * Skeletal muscle inflammation (myositis)
      * Skeletal muscle ischemia (oxygen deficiency)
      * Skeletal muscle trauma 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine myoglobin; Heart attack - myoglobin urine test; Myositis - myoglobin
urine test; Rhabdomyolysis - myoglobin urine test

## Images

      * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample
      * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
      * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Myoglobin, qualitative - urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:808.

Nagaraju K, Gladue HS, Lundberg IE. Inflammatory diseases of muscle and other
myopathies. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 85.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![Myositis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Myositis_thumb.jpg)Myositis _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

