Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000090.htm    
                                Description: A heart attack occurs when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked long enough that part of the heart muscle is damaged or dies. This article discusses what you need to do to take care of yourself    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart attack - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000090.htm

# Heart attack - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart attack occurs when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked long
enough that part of the heart muscle is damaged or dies. This article
discusses what you need to do to take care of yourself after you leave the
hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were in the hospital because you had a heart attack. A heart attack occurs
when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked long enough that part of
the heart muscle is damaged or dies.

![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17004.jpg)

## What to Expect at Home

You may feel sad. You may feel anxious and as though you have to be very
careful about what you do. All of these feelings are normal. They go away for
most people after 2 or 3 weeks. You may also feel tired when you leave the
hospital to go home.

## Activity

You should know the signs and symptoms of angina.

      * You may feel pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in your chest. You may also notice these symptoms in your arms, shoulders, neck, jaw, throat, or back.
      * Some people also feel discomfort in their back, shoulders, and stomach area.
      * You may have indigestion or feel sick to your stomach.
      * You may feel tired and be short of breath, sweaty, lightheaded, or weak.
      * You may have angina during physical activity, such as climbing stairs or walking uphill, lifting, sexual activity, or when you are out in cold weather. It can also happen when you are resting or it can wake you up when you are sleeping.

Know how to treat your chest pain when it happens. Talk with your health care
provider about what to do.

Take it easy for the first 4 to 6 weeks.

      * Avoid heavy lifting. Get some help with household chores if you can.
      * Take 30 to 60 minutes to rest in the afternoon for first 4 to 6 weeks. Try to go to bed early and get plenty of sleep.
      * Before starting to exercise, your provider may have you do an exercise test and recommend an exercise plan. This may happen before you leave the hospital or soon afterward. DO NOT change your exercise plan before talking with your provider.
      * Your provider may refer you to cardiac rehabilitation program. There, you will learn how to slowly increase your exercise and how to take care of your heart disease.

You should be able to talk comfortably when you are doing any activity, such
as walking, setting the table, and doing laundry. If you cannot, stop the
activity.

Ask your provider about when you can return to work. Expect to be away from
work for at least a week.

Talk to your provider before engaging in sexual activity. Ask your provider
when it is OK to start again. DO NOT take Viagra, Levitra, Cialis or any
herbal remedy for erection problems without checking with your provider first.

How long you will have to wait to return to your normal activities will depend
on:

      * Your physical condition before your heart attack
      * The size of your heart attack
      * If you had complications
      * The overall speed of your recovery

## Diet and Lifestyle

DO NOT drink any alcohol for at least 2 weeks. Ask your provider when you may
start. Limit how much you drink. Women should have only 1 drink a day, and men
should have no more than 2 a day. Try to drink alcohol only when you are
eating.

If you smoke, stop. Ask your provider for help quitting if you need it. DO NOT
let anybody smoke in your home, since second-hand smoke can harm you. Try to
stay away from things that are stressful for you. If you are feeling stressed
all the time, or if you are feeling very sad, talk with your provider. They
can refer you to a counselor.

Learn more about what you should eat to make your heart and blood vessels
healthier.

      * Avoid salty foods.
      * Stay away from fast food restaurants. 

## Taking Your Heart Medicines

Have your drug prescriptions filled before you go home. It is very important
that you take your drugs the way your provider told you to. DO NOT take any
other drugs or herbal supplements without asking your provider first if they
are safe for you.

Take your medicines with water. DO NOT take them with grapefruit juice, since
it may change how your body absorbs certain medicines. Ask your provider or
pharmacist for more information about this.

The medicines below are given to most people after they have had a heart
attack. Sometimes there is a reason they may not be safe to take, though.
These medicines help prevent another heart attack. Talk with your provider if
you are not already on any of these medicines:

      * Antiplatelets drugs (blood thinners), such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), prasugrel (Efient), or ticagrelor (Brilinta) to help keep your blood from clotting.
      * Beta-blockers and ACE inhibitor medicines to help protect your heart.
      * Statins or other drugs to lower your cholesterol. 

DO NOT suddenly stop taking these medicines for your heart. DO NOT stop taking
medicines for your diabetes, high blood pressure, or any other medical
conditions you may have without talking with your provider first.

If you are taking a blood thinner such as warfarin (Coumadin), you may need to
have extra blood tests on a regular basis to make sure your dose is correct.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you feel:

      * Pain, pressure, tightness, or heaviness in your chest, arm, neck, or jaw
      * Shortness of breath
      * Gas pains or indigestion
      * Numbness in your arms
      * Sweaty, or if you lose color
      * Lightheaded

Changes in your angina may mean your heart disease is getting worse. Call your
provider if your angina:

      * Becomes stronger
      * Happens more often
      * Lasts longer
      * Occurs when you are not active or when you are resting
      * Medicines do not help ease your symptoms as well as they used to

## Alternative Names

Myocardial infarction - discharge; MI - discharge; Coronary event - discharge;
Infarct - discharge; Acute coronary syndrome - discharge; ACS - discharge

## Images

      * ![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17004t.jpg)Acute MI

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines, and
the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery,
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons.
_Circulation_. 2014;130:1749-1767. PMID: 25070666
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

Mauri L, Bhatt DL. Percutaneous coronary intervention. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Read More

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
      * Cardiac ablation procedures 
      * Heart attack
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart pacemaker
      * High blood cholesterol levels
      * High blood pressure - adults
      * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
      * Tips on how to quit smoking
      * Unstable angina
      * Ventricular assist device

## Patient Instructions

      * ACE inhibitors
      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - when you have chest pain
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Being active after your heart attack
      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart pacemaker - discharge
      * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
      * How to read food labels
      * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heart Attack

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

