Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007452.htm    
                                Description: A troponin test measures the levels of troponin T or troponin I proteins in the blood. These proteins are released when the heart muscle has been damaged, such as occurs with a heart attack. The more damage    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Troponin test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007452.htm

# Troponin test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A troponin test measures the levels of troponin T or troponin I proteins in
the blood. These proteins are released when the heart muscle has been damaged,
such as occurs with a heart attack. The more damage there is to the heart, the
greater the amount of troponin T and I there will be in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare, most of the time.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

The most common reason to perform this test is to see if a heart attack has
occurred. Your health care provider will order this test if you have chest
pain and other signs of a heart attack. The test is usually repeated two more
times over the next 6 to 24 hours.

Your provider may also order this test if you have angina that is getting
worse, but no other signs of a heart attack. (Angina is chest pain thought to
be from a part of your heart not getting enough blood flow.)

The troponin test may also be done to help detect and evaluate other causes of
heart injury.

The test may be done along with other cardiac marker tests, such as CPK
isoenzymes or myoglobin.

## Normal Results

Cardiac troponin levels are normally so low they cannot be detected with most
blood tests.

Having normal troponin levels 12 hours after chest pain has started means a
heart attack is unlikely.

A normal value range may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements (for example, "high sensitivity troponin test") or
test different samples. Also, some labs have different cutoff points for
"normal" and "probable myocardial infarction." Talk to your provider about the
meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Even a slight increase in the troponin level will often mean there has been
some damage to the heart. Very high levels of troponin are a sign that a heart
attack has occurred.

Most patients who have had a heart attack have increased troponin levels
within 6 hours. After 12 hours, almost everyone who has had a heart attack
will have raised levels.

Troponin levels may remain high for 1 to 2 weeks after a heart attack.

Increased troponin levels may also be due to:

      * Abnormally fast heartbeat
      * High blood pressure in lung arteries (pulmonary hypertension)
      * Blockage of a lung artery by a blood clot, fat, or tumor cells (pulmonary embolus)
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Coronary artery spasm
      * Inflammation of the heart muscle usually due to a virus (myocarditis)
      * Prolonged exercise (for example, due to marathons or triathlons)
      * Trauma that injures the heart, such as a car accident
      * Weakening of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy)
      * Long-term kidney disease 

Increased troponin levels may also result from certain medical procedures such
as:

      * Cardiac angioplasty/stenting
      * Heart defibrillation or electrical cardioversion (purposeful shocking of the heart by medical personnel to correct an abnormal heart rhythm)
      * Open heart surgery
      * Radiofrequency ablation of the heart 

## Alternative Names

TroponinI; TnI; TroponinT; TnT; Cardiac-specific troponin I; Cardiac-specific
troponin T; cTnl; cTnT

## References

Anderson JL. ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and
complications of myocardial infarction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 73.

Levine GN, Bates ER, Blankenship JC, et al. 2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI Focused update
on primary percutaneous coronary intervention for patients with ST-Elevation
myocardial infarction: an update of the 2011 ACCF/AHA/SCAI guideline for
percutaneous coronary intervention and the 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-Elevation myocardial infarction:Â a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on clinical
practice guidelines and the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and
Interventions. _Circulation_. 2016;133(11):1135-1147. PMID: 26490017
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26490017.

Sabatine MS, Cannon CP. Approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Mann DL,
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 50.

Tehrani DM, Seto AH. Third universal definition of myocardial infarction:
update, caveats, differential diagnoses. _Cleve Clin J Med_.
2013;80(12):777-786. PMID: 24307162 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24307162.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

