Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007089.htm    
                                Description: Thrombolytic therapy is the use of drugs to break up or dissolve blood clots, which are the main cause of both heart attacks and stroke.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thrombolytic therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007089.htm

# Thrombolytic therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thrombolytic therapy is the use of drugs to break up or dissolve blood clots,
which are the main cause of both heart attacks and stroke.

## Information

Thrombolytic medicines are approved for the emergency treatment of stroke and
heart attack. The most commonly used drug for thrombolytic therapy is tissue
plasminogen activator (tPA), but other drugs can do the same thing.

Ideally, you should receive thrombolytic medicines within the first 30 minutes
after arriving at the hospital for treatment.

HEART ATTACKS

A blood clot can block the arteries to the heart. This can cause a heart
attack, when part of the heart muscle dies due to a lack of oxygen being
delivered by the blood.

Thrombolytics work by dissolving a major clot quickly. This helps restart
blood flow to the heart and helps prevent damage to the heart muscle.
Thrombolytics can stop a heart attack that would otherwise be larger or
potentially deadly. Outcomes are better if you receive a thrombolytic drug
within 12 hours after the heart attack starts. But the sooner treatment
begins, the better the results.

The drug restores some blood flow to the heart in most people. However, the
blood flow may not be completely normal and there may still be a small amount
of muscle damaged. Further therapy, such as cardiac catheterization with
angioplasty and stenting, may be needed.

Your health care provider will base the decisions about whether to give you a
thrombolytic medicine for a heart attack on many factors. These factors
include your history of chest pain and the results of an ECG test.

Other factors used to determine if you are a good candidate for thrombolytics
include:

      * Age (older people are at increased risk of complications)
      * Gender
      * Medical history (including your history of a previous heart attack, diabetes, low blood pressure, or increased heart rate) 

Generally, thrombolytics may not be given if you have:

      * A recent head injury
      * Bleeding problems
      * Bleeding ulcers
      * Pregnancy
      * Recent surgery
      * Taken blood thinning medicines such as Coumadin
      * Trauma
      * Uncontrolled (severe) high blood pressure 

STROKES

Most strokes are caused when blood clots move to a blood vessel in the brain
and block blood flow to that area. For such strokes (ischemic strokes),
thrombolytics can be used to help dissolve the clot quickly. Giving
thrombolytics within 3 hours of the first stroke symptoms can help limit
stroke damage and disability.

The decision to give the drug is based upon:

      * A brain CT scan to make sure there has not been any bleeding
      * A physical exam that shows a significant stroke
      * Your medical history 

As in heart attacks, a clot-dissolving drug isn't usually given if you have
one of the other medical problems listed above.

Thrombolytics are not given to someone who is having a stroke that involves
bleeding in the brain. They could worsen the stroke by causing increased
bleeding.

RISKS

Bleeding is the most common risk. It can be life threatening.

Minor bleeding from the gums or nose can occur in approximately 25% of people
who receive the drug. Bleeding into the brain occurs approximately 1% of the
time. This risk is the same for both stroke and heart attack patients.

If thrombolytics are felt to be too dangerous, other possible treatments for
clots causing a stroke or heart attack include:

      * Removal of the clot (thrombectomy)
      * A procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to the heart or the brain 

CONTACT A HEALTH CARE PROVIDER OR CALL 911

Heart attacks and strokes are medical emergencies. The sooner treatment with
thrombolytics begins, the better the chance for a good outcome.

## Alternative Names

Tissue plasminogen activator; TPA; Alteplase; Reteplase; Tenecteplase;
Activase thrombolytic agent; Clot-dissolving agents; Reperfusion therapy;
Stroke - thrombolytic; Heart attack - thrombolytic; Acute embolism -
thrombolytic; Thrombosis - thrombolytic; Lanoteplase; Staphylokinase;
Streptokinase (SK); Urokinase; Stroke - thrombolytic therapy; Heart attack -
thrombolytic therapy; Stroke - thrombolysis; Heart attack - thrombolysis;
Myocardial infarction - thrombolysis

## Images

      * ![Stroke](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17133t.jpg)Stroke
      * ![Thrombus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18120t.jpg)Thrombus
      * ![Post myocardial infarction ECG wave tracings](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18030t.jpg)Post myocardial infarction ECG wave tracings

## References

Anderson JL. ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and
complications of myocardial infarction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 73.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Goldstein LB. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 407.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID: 23247303
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Ischemic
Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IschemicStroke_thumb.jpg)Ischemic
Stroke _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

