Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000096.htm    
                                Description: Cardiac catheterization involves passing a thin flexible tube (catheter) into the right or left side of the heart. The catheter is most often inserted from the groin or the arm. This article discusses    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiac catheterization - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000096.htm

# Cardiac catheterization - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiac catheterization involves passing a thin flexible tube (catheter) into
the right or left side of the heart. The catheter is most often inserted from
the groin or the arm. This article discusses how to care for yourself when you
leave the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

A catheter was inserted into an artery in your groin or arm. Then it was
carefully guided up to your heart. Once it reached your heart, the catheter
was placed into the arteries that deliver blood to your heart. Then contrast
dye was injected. The dye allowed your doctor to see any areas in your
coronary arteries that were blocked or narrowed.

If you had a blockage, you may have had angioplasty and a stent placed in your
heart during the procedure.

## What to Expect at Home

You may feel pain in your groin or arm where the catheter was placed. You may
also have some bruising around and below the incision that was made to insert
the catheter.

## Self-care

In general, people who have angioplasty can walk around within 6 hours or less
after the procedure. Complete recovery takes a week or less. Keep the area
where the catheter was inserted dry for 24 to 48 hours. If the catheter was
inserted into your arm, recovery is often faster.

If the doctor put the catheter in through your groin:

      * Walking short distances on a flat surface is OK. Limit going up and downstairs to around twice a day for the first 2 to 3 days.
      * DO NOT do yard work, drive, squat lift heavy objects, or play sports for at least 2 days, or until your health care provider tells you it is OK.

If the doctor put the catheter in your arm:

      * DO NOT lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms). (This is a little more than a gallon of milk).
      * DO NOT do any heavy pushing, pulling, or twisting.

For a catheter in your groin or arm:

      * Avoid sexual activity for 2 to 5 days. Ask your doctor when it will be OK to start again.
      * You should be able to return to work in 2 to 3 days if you DO NOT do heavy work.
      * DO NOT take a bath or swim for the first week. You may take showers, but make sure the area where the catheter was inserted does not get wet for the first 24 to 48 hours.

You will need to take care of your incision.

      * Your provider will tell you how often to change your dressing.
      * If your incision bleeds, lie down and put pressure on it for 30 minutes.

Many people take aspirin, often with another medicine such as clopidogrel
(Plavix), prasugrel (Efient), or ticagrelor (Brilinta), after this procedure.
These medicines are blood thinners, and they keep your blood from forming
clots in your arteries and stent. A blood clot can lead to a heart attack.
Take the medicines exactly as your provider tells you. DO NOT stop taking them
without talking to your provider.

You should eat a heart-healthy diet, exercise, and follow a healthy lifestyle.
Your provider can refer you to other health experts who can help you learn
about exercise and healthy foods that will fit into your lifestyle.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * There is bleeding at the catheter insertion site that does not stop when you apply pressure.
      * Your arm or leg below where the catheter was inserted changes color, is cool to the touch, or is numb.
      * The small incision for your catheter becomes red or painful, or yellow or green discharge is draining from it.
      * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away with rest.
      * Your pulse feels irregular -- it is very slow (fewer than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (over 100 to 120 beats a minute).
      * You have dizziness, fainting, or you are very tired.
      * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
      * You have problems taking any of your heart medicines.
      * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).

## Alternative Names

Catheterization - cardiac - discharge; Heart catheterization - discharge:
Catheterization - cardiac; Heart catheterization; Angina - cardiac
catheterization discharge; CAD - cardiac catheterization discharge; Coronary
artery disease - cardiac catheterization discharge

## References

Herrmann J. Cardiac catheterization. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Mauri L, Bhatt DL. Percutaneous coronary intervention. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

## Read More

      * Angina
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * High blood cholesterol levels
      * Stent

## Patient Instructions

      * ACE inhibitors
      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
      * Angina - when you have chest pain
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Being active after your heart attack
      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * How to read food labels
      * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heart Attack
      * Heart Health Tests

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

