Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000166.htm    
                                Description: Pericarditis is inflammation and swelling of the covering of the heart (pericardium). It can occur in the days or weeks following a heart attack.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pericarditis - after heart attack

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000166.htm

# Pericarditis - after heart attack

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pericarditis is inflammation and swelling of the covering of the heart
(pericardium). It can occur in the days or weeks following a heart attack.

![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18081.jpg)

## Causes

Two types of pericarditis can occur after a heart attack.

 **Early pericarditis:** This form most occurs within 1 to 3 days after a
heart attack. Inflammation and swelling develop as the body tries to clean up
the diseased heart tissue.

![Post-MI pericarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18080.jpg)

 **Late pericarditis:** This is also called Dressler syndrome. It is also
called post-cardiac injury syndrome or postcardiotomy pericarditis). It most
often develops several weeks or months after a heart attack, heart surgery, or
other trauma to the heart. It can also happen a week after a heart injury.
Dressler syndrome is thought to occur when the immune system attacks healthy
heart tissue by mistake.

Things that put you at higher risk of pericarditis include:

      * A previous heart attack
      * Open heart surgery
      * Chest trauma
      * A heart attack that has affected the thickness of your heart muscle 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Anxiety
      * Chest pain from the swollen pericardium rubbing on the heart. The pain may be sharp, tight or crushing and may move to the neck, shoulder, or abdomen. The pain may also be worse when you breathe and go away when you lean forward, stand, or sit up.
      * Trouble breathing
      * Dry cough
      * Fast heart rate (tachycardia)
      * Fatigue
      * Fever (common with the second type of pericarditis)
      * Malaise (general ill feeling)
      * Splinting of ribs (bending over or holding the chest) with deep breathing

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to your heart and lungs with a
stethoscope. There may be a rubbing sound (called a pericardial friction rub,
not to be confused with a heart murmur). Heart sounds in general may be weak
or sound far away.

A buildup of fluid in the covering of the heart or space around the lungs
(pericardial effusion) is not common after a heart attack. But, it often does
occur in some people with Dressler syndrome.

Tests may include:

      * Cardiac injury markers (CK-MB and troponin may help tell pericarditis from a heart attack)
      * Chest CT scan
      * Chest MRI
      * Chest x-ray
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * ECG (electrocardiogram)
      * Echocardiogram
      * ESR (sedimentation rate) or C-reactive protein (measures of inflammation)

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to make the heart work better and reduce pain and
other symptoms.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or aspirin may be used to treat
inflammation of the pericardium. A drug called colchicine is often used with
these medicines.

Steroids are commonly used for Dressler syndrome. In most cases, they are not
used for early pericarditis because of these medications may interfere with
normal healing and result in complications.

In some cases, excess fluid surrounding the heart (pericardial effusion) may
need to be removed. This is done with a procedure called pericardiocentesis.
If complications develop, part of the pericardium may need to be removed with
surgery (pericardiectomy).

![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8895.jpg)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition may come back, even in people who get treatment. Untreated
pericarditis can be life threatening in some cases.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications of pericarditis are:

      * Cardiac tamponade
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Constrictive pericarditis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop symptoms of pericarditis after a heart attack
      * You have been diagnosed with pericarditis and symptoms continue or come back despite treatment

## Alternative Names

Dressler syndrome; Post-MI pericarditis; Post-cardiac injury syndrome;
Postcardiotomy pericarditis

## Images

      * ![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17004t.jpg)Acute MI
      * ![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18081t.jpg)Pericardium
      * ![Pericarditis post-IM](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18080t.jpg)Post-MI pericarditis
      * ![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8895t.jpg)Pericardium

## References

Leal MA. Pericarditis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy
2018._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018;138-141.

LeWinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 83.

Little WC, Oh JK. Pericardial diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 77.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

