Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000231.htm    
                                Description: A heart attack occurs when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked for a period of time and a part of the heart muscle is damaged. It is also called a myocardial infarction (MI).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart attack - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000231.htm

# Heart attack - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart attack occurs when blood flow to a part of your heart is blocked for a
period of time and a part of the heart muscle is damaged. It is also called a
myocardial infarction (MI).

![Coronary artery
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200082t.gif)Watch this
video about:Coronary artery disease

Angina is pain or pressure in the chest. It occurs when your heart muscle is
not getting enough blood or oxygen. You may feel angina in your neck or jaw.
Sometimes you may notice that you are short of breath.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of yourself after a heart attack.

## Questions

What are the signs and symptoms that I am having angina? Will I always have
the same symptoms?

      * What are the activities that can cause me to have angina?
      * How should I treat my chest pain or angina when it happens?
      * When should I call the doctor?
      * When should I call 911? 

How much activity is ok for me?

      * Can I walk around the house? Is it ok to go up and down stairs? When can I start light housework or cooking? How much can I lift or carry? How much sleep do I need?
      * Which activities are better to start with? Are there activities that are not safe for me?
      * Is it safe for me to exercise on my own? Should I exercise inside or outside?
      * How long and how hard can I exercise? 

Do I need to have a stress test? Do I need to go to a cardiac rehabilitation
program?

When can I return to work? Are there limits on what I can do at work?

What should I do if I feel sad or very worried about my heart disease?

How can I change the way I live to make my heart healthier?

      * What is a heart-healthy diet? Is it ok to ever eat something that is not heart healthy? How can I make heart-healthy choices when I go eat out?
      * Is it OK to drink alcohol? How much?
      * Is it OK to be around other people who are smoking?
      * Is my blood pressure normal?
      * What is my cholesterol? Do l need to take medicines for it? 

Is it OK to be sexually active? Is it safe to use sildenafil (Viagra),
vardenafil (Levitra), or tadalafil (Cialis) for erection problems?

What medicines am I taking to treat angina?

      * Do they have any side effects?
      * What should I do if I miss a dose?
      * Is it ever safe to stop taking any of these medicines on my own? 

If I am taking a blood thinner such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix),
prasugrel (Effient), ticagrelor (Brilinta), coumadin (Warfarin), apixaban
(Eliquis), rivaroxaban (Xeralto), edoxaban (Savaysa), dabigatran (Pradaxa),
can I use medicines such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve,
Naprosyn) for arthritis, headaches, or other pain problems?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about your heart attack

## Images

      * ![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17004t.jpg)Acute MI

## References

Anderson JL. ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and
complications of myocardial infarction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 73.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Smith Jr SC, Benjamin EJ, Bonow RO, et al. AHA/ACCF secondary prevention and
risk reduction therapy for patients with coronary and other atherosclerotic
vascular disease: 2011 update: a guideline from the American Heart Association
and American College of Cardiology Foundation endorsed by the World Heart
Federation and the Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association. _J Am Coll
Cardiol_. 2011;58(23):2432-2446. PMID: 22055990
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22055990.

## Read More

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
      * Heart attack
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart pacemaker
      * Stable angina
      * Tips on how to quit smoking
      * Unstable angina

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Being active after your heart attack
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heart Attack

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

