Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000195.htm    
                                Description: Most heart attacks are caused by a blood clot that blocks one of the coronary arteries. The coronary arteries bring blood and oxygen to the heart. If the blood flow is blocked, the heart is starved of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart attack

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000195.htm

# Heart attack

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most heart attacks are caused by a blood clot that blocks one of the coronary
arteries. The coronary arteries bring blood and oxygen to the heart. If the
blood flow is blocked, the heart is starved of oxygen and heart cells die.

The medical term for this is myocardial infarction.

![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17004.jpg)

## Causes

A substance called plaque can build up in the walls of your coronary arteries.
This plaque is made up of cholesterol and other cells.

A heart attack may occur when:

      * A tear in the plaque occurs. This triggers blood platelets and other substances to form a blood clot at the site that blocks most or all of the oxygen-carrying blood from flowing to a part of the heart muscle. This is the most common cause of heart attack.
      * A slow buildup of plaque may narrow one of the coronary arteries so that it is almost blocked. 

In either case, there is not enough blood flow to the heart muscle and heart
muscle dies.

The cause of heart attack is not always known.

![Progressive build-up of plaque in coronary
artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18031.jpg)

Heart attack may occur:

      * When you are resting or asleep
      * After a sudden increase in physical activity
      * When you are active outside in cold weather
      * After sudden, severe emotional or physical stress, including an illness 

Many risk factors may lead to the development of plaque buildup and a heart
attack.

## Symptoms

A heart attack is a medical emergency. If you have symptoms of a heart attack,
call 911 or your local emergency number right away.

      * DO NOT try to drive yourself to the hospital.
      * DO NOT WAIT. You are at greatest risk for sudden death in the early hours of a heart attack.

Chest pain is the most common symptom of a heart attack.

      * You may feel the pain in only one part of your body OR
      * Pain may move from your chest to your arms, shoulder, neck, teeth, jaw, belly area, or back
![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9807.jpg)

The pain can be severe or mild. It can feel like:

      * A tight band around the chest
      * Bad indigestion
      * Something heavy sitting on your chest
      * Squeezing or heavy pressure 

The pain most often lasts longer than 20 minutes. Rest and a medicine to relax
the blood vessels (called nitroglycerin) may not completely relieve the pain
of a heart attack. Symptoms may also go away and come back.

Other symptoms of a heart attack can include:

      * Anxiety
      * Cough
      * Fainting
      * Lightheadedness, dizziness
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Palpitations (feeling like your heart is beating too fast or irregularly)
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sweating, which may be very heavy 

Some people (the older adults, people with diabetes, and women) may have
little or no chest pain. Or, they may have unusual symptoms such as shortness
of breath, fatigue, and weakness. A "silent heart attack" is a heart attack
with no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to your chest
using a stethoscope.

      * The provider may hear abnormal sounds in your lungs (called crackles), a heart murmur, or other abnormal sounds.
      * You may have a fast or uneven pulse.
      * Your blood pressure may be normal, high, or low. 

You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG) to look for heart damage. Most of the
time, certain changes on the ECG indicate you are having a heart attack.
Sometimes these changes are not present, even though other tests indicate you
have had a heart attack. This can be called non-ST elevation myocardial
infarction (NSTEMI).

A blood test can show if you have heart tissue damage. This test can confirm
that you are having a heart attack. You will likely have this test 3 times
over the first 6 to 12 hours.

Coronary angiography may be done right away or when you are more stable.

      * This test uses a special dye and x-rays to see how blood flows through your heart.
      * It can help your doctor decide which treatments you need next. 

Other tests to look at your heart that may be done while you are in the
hospital:

      * Echocardiography with or with stress testing
      * Exercise stress test
      * Nuclear stress test
      * Heart CT scan or heart MRI

## Treatment

IMMEDIATE TREATMENT

      * You will be hooked up to a heart monitor, so the health care team can see how regularly your heart is beating.
      * You will receive oxygen so that your heart doesn't have to work as hard.
      * An intravenous line (IV) will be placed into one of your veins. Medicines and fluids pass through this IV.
      * You may get nitroglycerin and morphine to help reduce chest pain.
      * You may receive aspirin, unless it would not be safe for you. In that case, you will be given another medicine that prevents blood clots.
      * Dangerous abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias) may be treated with medicine or electric shocks. 

EMERGENCY PROCEDURES

Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that
supply blood to the heart.

      * Angioplasty is often the first choice of treatment. It should be done within 90 minutes after you get to the hospital, and usually no later than 12 hours after a heart attack.
      * A stent is a small, metal mesh tube that opens up (expands) inside a coronary artery. A stent is usually placed after or during angioplasty. It helps prevent the artery from closing up again. 

You may be given drugs to break up the clot. This is called thrombolytic
therapy. It is best if these drugs are given soon after the onset of symptoms,
usually no later than 12 hours after it and ideally within 30 minutes of
arriving to the hospital.

Some people may also have heart bypass surgery to open narrowed or blocked
blood vessels that supply blood to the heart. This procedure is also called
coronary artery bypass grafting and/or open heart surgery.

TREATMENT AFTER A HEART ATTACK

After several days, you will be discharged from the hospital.

You will likely need to take medicines, some for the rest of your life. Always
talk to your provider before stopping or changing how you take any medicines.
Stopping certain medicines can be deadly.

While under the care of your health care team, you will learn:

      * How to take medicines to treat your heart problem and prevent more heart attacks
      * How to eat a heart-healthy diet
      * How to be active and exercise safely
      * What to do when you have chest pain
      * How to stop smoking

Strong emotions are common after a heart attack.

      * You may feel sad
      * You may feel anxious and worry about being careful about everything you do 

All of these feelings are normal. They go away for most people after 2 or 3
weeks.

You may also feel tired when you leave the hospital to go home.

Most people who have had a heart attack take part in a cardiac rehabilitation
program.

## Support Groups

Many people benefit from taking part in support groups for people with heart
disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After a heart attack, you have a higher chance of having another heart attack.

How well you do after a heart attack depends on several factors such as:

      * The amount of damage to your heart muscle and heart valves
      * Where that damage is located
      * Your medical care after the heart attack 

If your heart can no longer pump blood out to your body as well as it used to,
you may develop heart failure. Abnormal heart rhythms can occur, and they can
be life threatening.

Most people can slowly go back to normal activities after a heart attack. This
includes sexual activity. Talk to your provider about how much activity is
good for you.

## Alternative Names

Myocardial infarction; MI; Acute MI; ST - elevation myocardial infarction;
Non-ST - elevation myocardial infarction; NSTEMI; CAD - heart attack; Coronary
artery disease - heart attack

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
      * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Progressive build-up of plaque in coronary artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18031t.jpg)Progressive build-up of plaque in coronary artery
      * ![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17004t.jpg)Acute MI
      * ![Post myocardial infarction ECG wave tracings](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18030t.jpg)Post myocardial infarction ECG wave tracings
      * ![Posterior heart arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18037t.jpg)Posterior heart arteries
      * ![Anterior heart arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9367t.jpg)Anterior heart arteries
      * ![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9807t.jpg)Heart attack symptoms
      * ![Jaw pain and heart attacks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9486t.jpg)Jaw pain and heart attacks

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 2019 ACC/AHA guideline on the
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: a report of the American College
of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2019;140(11):e596-e646. PMID: 30879355
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30879355.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2013;61(4):485-510. PMID: 23256913
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23256913.

Scirica BM, Libby P, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction:
pathophysiology and clinical evolution. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann
DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 58.

Tamis-Holland JE, Jneid H, Reynolds HR, et al. Contemporary diagnosis and
management of patients with myocardial infarction in the absence of
obstructive coronary artery disease: a scientific statement from the American
Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2019;139(18):e891-e908. PMID: 30913893
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30913893.

## Review Date 6/18/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 01/17/2020 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

