Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007488.htm    
                                Description: Small blood vessels called coronary arteries supply oxygen carrying blood to the heart muscle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thrombolytic drugs for heart attack

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007488.htm

# Thrombolytic drugs for heart attack

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Small blood vessels called coronary arteries supply oxygen carrying blood to
the heart muscle.

      * A heart attack can occur if a blood clot stops the flow of blood through one of these arteries.
      * Unstable angina refers to chest pain and other warning signs that a heart attack may happen soon. It is most often caused by blood clots in the arteries. 

Some people may be given drugs to break up the clot if the artery is
completely blocked.

      * These drugs are called thrombolytics, or clot-busting drugs.
      * They are only given for a type of heart attack, where certain changes are noted on the ECG. This type of heart attack is called an ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
      * These drugs should be given as soon as possible after the chest pain first occurs (most often in less than 12 hours).
      * The medicine is given through a vein (IV).
      * Blood thinners taken by mouth may be prescribed later to prevent more clots from forming. 

The main risk when receiving clot-busting drugs is bleeding, with the most
serious being bleeding in the brain.

Thrombolytic therapy is not safe for people who have:

      * Bleeding inside the head or a stroke
      * Brain abnormalities, such as tumors or poorly-formed blood vessels
      * Had a head injury within the past 3 months
      * A history of using blood thinners or a bleeding disorder
      * Had major surgery, a major injury, or internal bleeding within the past 3 to 4 weeks
      * Peptic ulcer disease
      * Severe high blood pressure 

Other treatments to open blocked or narrowed vessels that may be done in place
of or after treatment with thrombolytic therapy include:

      * Angioplasty
      * Heart bypass surgery

## Alternative Names

Myocardial infarction - thrombolytic; MI - thrombolytic; ST - elevation
myocardial infarction; CAD - thrombolytic; Coronary artery disease -
thrombolytic; STEMI - thrombolytic

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Ibanez B, James S, Agewall S, et al. 2017 ESC guidelines for the management of
acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with ST-segment elevation:
The Task Force for the management of acute myocardial infarction in patients
presenting with ST-segment elevation of the European Society of Cardiology
(ESC). _Eur Heart J_. 2018;39(2):119-177. PMID: 28886621
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28886621.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

