Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000706.htm    
                                Description: Becker muscular dystrophy is an inherited disorder that involves slowly worsening muscle weakness of the legs and pelvis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Becker muscular dystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000706.htm

# Becker muscular dystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Becker muscular dystrophy is an inherited disorder that involves slowly
worsening muscle weakness of the legs and pelvis.

## Causes

Becker muscular dystrophy is very similar to Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The
main difference is that it gets worse at a much slower rate and it is less
common.

The disorder is passed down through families (inherited). Having a family
history of the condition raises your risk.

Becker muscular dystrophy occurs in about 3 to 6 out of every 100,000 births.
The disease is found mostly in boys.

## Symptoms

Females rarely develop symptoms. Males will develop symptoms if they inherit
the defective gene. Symptoms most often appear in boys between ages 5 and 15,
but may begin later.

Muscle weakness of the lower body, including the legs and pelvis area, slowly
gets worse, causing:

      * Difficulty walking that gets worse over time; by age 25 to 30, the person is usually unable to walk
      * Frequent falls
      * Difficulty getting up from the floor and climbing stairs
      * Difficulty with running, hopping, and jumping
      * Loss of muscle mass
      * Toe walking
      * Muscle weakness in the arms, neck, and other areas is not as severe as in the lower body 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Breathing problems
      * Cognitive problems (these do not get worse over time)
      * Fatigue
      * Loss of balance and coordination 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a nervous system (neurological) and muscle
exam. A careful medical history is also important, because symptoms are
similar to those ofÂ Duchenne muscular dystrophy. However, Becker muscular
dystrophy gets worse much more slowly.

An exam may find:

      * Abnormally developed bones, leading to deformities of the chest and back (scoliosis)
      * Abnormal heart muscle function (cardiomyopathy)
      * Congestive heart failure or irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) - rare
      * Muscle deformities, including contractures of heels and legs, abnormal fat and connective tissue in calf muscles
      * Muscle loss that begins in the legs and pelvis, then moves to the muscles of the shoulders, neck, arms, and respiratory system 

Tests that may be done include:

      * CPK blood test
      * Electromyography (EMG) nerve testing
      * Muscle biopsy or genetic blood test 

## Treatment

There is no known cure for Becker muscular dystrophy. However there are many
new drugs currently undergoing clinical testing that show significant promise
in treating the disease.The current goal of treatment is to control symptoms
to maximize the person's quality of life. Some providers prescribe steroids to
help keep a patient walking for as long as possible.

Activity is encouraged. Inactivity (such as bed rest) can make the muscle
disease worse. Physical therapy may be helpful to maintain muscle strength.
Orthopedic appliances such as braces and wheelchairs may improve movement and
self-care.

Genetic counseling may be recommended. Daughters of a man with Becker muscular
dystrophy will very likely carry the defective gene and could pass it on to
their sons.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of the illness by joining a muscular dystrophy support
group where members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Becker muscular dystrophy leads to slowly worsening disability. However, the
amount of disability varies. SomeÂ people may need a wheelchair. Others may
only need to use walking aids such as canes or braces.

Lifespan is most often shortened if thereÂ are heart and breathing problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart-related problems such as cardiomyopathy
      * Lung failure
      * Pneumonia or other respiratory infections
      * Increasing and permanent disability that leads to decreased ability to care for self, decreased mobility 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Symptoms of Becker muscular dystrophy appear
      * A person with Becker muscular dystrophy develops new symptoms (particularly fever with cough or breathing difficulties)
      * You are planning to start a family and you or other family members have been diagnosed with Becker muscular dystrophy

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be advised if there is a family history of Becker
muscular dystrophy.

## Alternative Names

Benign pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy; Becker's dystrophy

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
      * ![Deep anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9676t.jpg)Deep anterior muscles
      * ![Tendons and muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8956t.jpg)Tendons and muscles
      * ![Lower leg muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17238t.jpg)Lower leg muscles

## References

Amato AA. Disorders of the skeletal muscle. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 110.

Sarnat HB. Muscular dystrophies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 609.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

