Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000711.htm    
                                Description: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies include at least 18 different inherited disorders. (There are 16 known genetic forms.) These disorders first affect the muscles around the shoulder girdle and hips. These    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000711.htm

# Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies include at least 18 different inherited
disorders. (There are 16 known genetic forms.) These disorders first affect
the muscles around the shoulder girdle and hips. These diseases get worse.
Eventually, it may involve other muscles.

## Causes

Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies are a large group of genetic diseases in
which there is muscle weakness and wasting (muscular dystrophy).

In most cases, both parents must pass on the non-working (defective) gene for
a child to have the disease (autosomal recessive inheritance). In some rare
types, only one parent needs to pass on the non-working gene to affect the
child. This is called autosomal dominant inheritance. For 16 of these
conditions, the defective gene has been discovered. For others, the gene is
not yet known.

An important risk factor is having a family member with muscular dystrophy.

## Symptoms

Most often, the first sign is pelvic muscle weakness. Examples of this include
trouble standing from a sitting position without using the arms, or difficulty
climbing stairs. The weakness starts in childhood to young adulthood.

Other symptoms include:

      * Abnormal, sometimes waddling, walk
      * Joints that are fixed in a contracted position (late in the disease)
      * Large and muscular-looking calves (pseudohypertrophy), which are not actually strong
      * Loss of muscle mass, thinning of certain body parts
      * Low back pain 
      * Palpitations or passing-out spells
      * Shoulder weakness 
      * Weakness of the muscles in the face (later in the disease)
      * Weakness in the muscles of the lower legs, feet, lower arms, and hands (later in the disease) 

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

      * Blood creatine kinase levels
      * DNA testing (molecular genetic testing)
      * Echocardiogram or ECG
      * Electromyogram (EMG) testing
      * Muscle biopsy

## Treatment

There are no known treatments that reverse the muscle weakness. Gene therapy
may become available in the future. Supportive treatment can decrease the
complications of the disease.

The condition is managed based on the person's symptoms. It includes:

      * Heart monitoring 
      * Mobility aids 
      * Physical therapy 
      * Respiratory care 
      * Weight control 

Surgery is sometimes needed for any bone or joint problems.

## Support Groups

The Muscular Dystrophy Association is an excellent resource: www.mda.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In general, people tend to have weakness that slowly gets worse in affected
muscles and spreads.

The disease causes loss of movement. The person may be dependent on a
wheelchair within 20 to 30 years.

Heart muscle weakness and abnormal electrical activity of the heart can
increase the risk for palpitations, fainting, and sudden death. Most people
with this group of diseases live into adulthood, but do not reach their full
life expectancy.

## Possible Complications

People with limb-girdle muscular dystrophies may experience complications such
as:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms
      * Contractures of the joints
      * Difficulties with activities of daily living due to shoulder weakness
      * Progressive weakness, which may lead to needing a wheelchair

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child feels weak while rising
from a squatting position. Call a geneticist if you or a family member has
been diagnosed with muscular dystrophy and you are planning a pregnancy.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is now offered to affected individuals and their families.
Soon molecular testing will involve whole genome sequencing on patients and
their relatives to better establish the diagnosis. Genetic counseling may help
some couples and families learn about the risks and help with family planning.
It also allows connecting patients with diseases registries and patient
organizations.

Some of the complications can be prevented with appropriate treatment. For
example, a cardiac pacemaker or defibrillator can greatly reduce the risk for
sudden death due to an abnormal heart rhythm. Physical therapy may be able to
prevent or delay contractures and improve quality of life.

Affected people may want to do DNA banking. DNA testing is recommended for
those who are affected. This helps to identify the family gene mutation. Once
the mutation is found, prenatal DNA testing, testing for carriers, and pre-
implantation genetic diagnosis are possible.

## Alternative Names

Muscular dystrophy - limb-girdle type (LGMD)

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles

## References

Mohassel P, Bonnemann CG. Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies. In: Darras BT,
Jones HR, Ryan MM, DeVivo DC, eds. _Neuromuscular Disorders Of Infancy,
Childhood, And Adolescence_. 2nd ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic Press;
2015:chap 34.

Sarnat HB. Muscular dystrophies -- limb-girdle muscular dystrophies. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 609.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

