Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001190.htm    
                                Description: Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited disorders that cause muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue, which get worse over time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Muscular dystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001190.htm

# Muscular dystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited disorders that cause muscle
weakness and loss of muscle tissue, which get worse over time.

## Causes

Muscular dystrophies, or MD, are a group of inherited conditions. This means
they are passed down through families. They may occur in childhood or
adulthood. There are many different types of muscular dystrophy. They include:

      * Becker muscular dystrophy
      * Duchenne muscular dystrophy
      * Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy
      * Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy
      * Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy
      * Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy
      * Myotonic muscular dystrophy

## Symptoms

Muscular dystrophy can affect adults, but the more severe forms tend to occur
in early childhood.

Symptoms vary among the different types of muscular dystrophy. All of the
muscles may be affected. Or, only specific groups of muscles may be affected,
such as those around the pelvis, shoulder, or face. The muscle weakness slowly
gets worse and symptoms can include:

      * Delayed development of muscle motor skills
      * Difficulty using one or more muscle groups
      * Drooling
      * Eyelid drooping (ptosis)
      * Frequent falls
      * Loss of strength in a muscle or group of muscles as an adult
      * Loss in muscle size
      * Problems walking (delayed walking) 

Intellectual disability is present in some types of muscular dystrophy.

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination and your medical history will help the health care
provider determine the type of muscular dystrophy. Specific muscle groups are
affected by different types of muscular dystrophy.

The exam may show:

      * Abnormally curved spine (scoliosis)
      * Joint contractures (clubfoot, clawhand, or others)
      * Low muscle tone (hypotonia) 

Some types of muscular dystrophy involve the heart muscle, causing
cardiomyopathy orÂ abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia).

Often, there is a loss of muscle mass (wasting). This may be hard to see
because some types of muscular dystrophy cause a buildup of fat and connective
tissue that makes the muscle appear larger. This is called pseudohypertrophy.

A muscle biopsy may be used to confirm the diagnosis. In some cases, a DNA
blood test may be all that is needed.

Other tests may include:

      * Heart testing: electrocardiography (ECG)
      * Nerve testing: nerve conduction and electromyography (EMG)
      * Urine and blood testing, including CPK level
      * Genetic testing for some forms of muscular dystrophy 

## Treatment

There are no known cures for the various muscular dystrophies. The goal of
treatment is to control symptoms.

Physical therapy may help maintain muscle strength and function. Leg braces
and a wheelchair can improve mobility and self-care. In some cases, surgery on
the spine or legs may help improve function.

Corticosteroids taken by mouth are sometimes prescribed to children with
certain muscular dystrophies to keep them walking for as long as possible.

The person should be as active as possible. No activity at all (such as
bedrest) can make the disease worse.

Some people with breathing weakness may benefit from devices to assist in
breathing.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group where members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The severity of disability depends on the type of muscular dystrophy. All
types of muscular dystrophy slowly get worse, but how fast this happens varies
widely.

Some types of muscular dystrophy, such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy in boys,
are deadly. Other types cause little disability and people have a normal
lifespan.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of muscular dystrophy.
      * You have a personal or family history of muscular dystrophy and you are planning to have children. 

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is advised when there is a family history of muscular
dystrophy. Women may have no symptoms, but still carry the gene for the
disorder. Duchenne muscular dystrophy can be detected with about 95% accuracy
by genetic studies done during pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Inherited myopathy; MD

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
      * ![Deep anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9676t.jpg)Deep anterior muscles
      * ![Tendons and muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8956t.jpg)Tendons and muscles
      * ![Lower leg muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17238t.jpg)Lower leg muscles

## References

Sarnat HB. Muscular dystrophies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 609.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

