Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000707.htm    
                                Description: Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is a muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue that gets worse over time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000707.htm

# Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is a muscle weakness and loss of muscle
tissue that gets worse over time.

## Causes

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy affects the upper body. It is not the
same as Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Becker muscular dystrophy, which
affect the lower body.

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is a genetic disorder due to a
chromosome mutation. It appears in both men and women. It may develop in a
child if either parent carries the gene for the disorder. In 10% to 30% of
cases, the parents do not carry the gene.

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is one of the most common forms of
muscle dystrophy affecting 1 in 15,000 to 1 in 20,000 adults in the United
States. It affects men and women equally.

## Symptoms

Men often have more symptoms than women.

Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy mainly affects the face, shoulder, and
upper arm muscles. However, it can also affect muscles around the pelvis,
hips, and lower leg.

Symptoms can appear after birth (infantile form), but often they do not appear
until age 10 to 26. However, it is not uncommon for symptoms to appear much
later in life. In some cases, symptoms never develop.

Symptoms are most often mild and very slowly become worse. Muscle weakness of
the face is common, and may include:

      * Eyelid drooping
      * Inability to whistle due to weakness of the cheek muscles
      * Decreased facial expression due to weakness of facial muscles
      * Depressed or angry facial expression
      * Difficulty pronouncing wordsÂ 
      * Difficulty reaching above the shoulder level

Shoulder muscle weakness causes deformities such as pronounced shoulder blades
(scapular winging) and sloping shoulders. The person has difficulty raising
the arms because of shoulder and arm muscle weakness.

Weakness of the lower legs is possible as the disorder gets worse. This
interferes with ability to play sports because of decreased strength and poor
balance. The weakness can be severe enough to interfere with walking. A small
percentage of people use a wheelchair.

Chronic pain is present in 50% to 80% of people with this type of muscular
dystrophy.

Hearing loss and abnormal heart rhythms may occur, but are rare.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam will show weakness of the face and shoulder muscles as well as
scapular winging. Weakness of the back muscles can cause scoliosis, while
weakness of the abdominal muscles can be the cause of a sagging belly. High
blood pressure may be noted, but is usually mild. An eye exam may show changes
in the blood vessels in the back of the eye.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Creatine kinase test (may be slightly high)
      * DNA testing
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * EMG (electromyography)
      * Fluorescein angiography
      * Genetic testing of chromosome 4
      * Hearing tests
      * Muscle biopsy (may confirm the diagnosis)
      * Visual exam
      * Cardiac testing
      * X-rays of the spine to determine if there is a scoliosis
      * Pulmonary function tests

## Treatment

There is no known cure for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. Treatments
are given to control symptoms and improve quality of life. Activity is
encouraged. Inactivity such as bedrest can make the muscle disease worse.

Physical therapy may help maintain muscle strength. Other possible treatments
include:

      * Occupational therapy to help improve activities of daily living.
      * Oral albuterol to increase muscle mass (but not strength).
      * Speech therapy.
      * Surgery to fix a winged scapula.
      * Walking aids and foot support devices if there is ankle weakness.
      * BiPAP to help breathing. Oxygen alone should be avoided in patients with a high CO2 (hypercarbia).
      * Counseling services (psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Disability is often minor. Lifespan is most often not affected.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Decreased mobility
      * Decreased ability to care for self
      * Deformities of the face and shoulders
      * Hearing loss
      * Vision loss (rare) 
      * Respiratory insufficiency (Be sure to talk to your health care provider before having general anesthesia.)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of this condition develop.

Genetic counseling is recommended for couples with a family history of this
condition who wish to have children.

## Alternative Names

Landouzy-Dejerine muscular dystrophy

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles

## References

Preston DC, Shapiro BE. Proximal, distal, and generalized weakness. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Sarnat HB. Muscular dystrophies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 609.

Warner WC, Sawyer JR. Neuromuscular disorders. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

