Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000705.htm    
                                Description: Duchenne muscular dystrophy is an inherited disorder. It involves muscle weakness, which quickly gets worse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Duchenne muscular dystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000705.htm

# Duchenne muscular dystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy is an inherited disorder. It involves muscle
weakness, which quickly gets worse.

## Causes

Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a form of muscular dystrophy. It worsens
quickly. Other muscular dystrophies (including Becker muscular dystrophy) get
worse much more slowly.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by a defective gene for dystrophin (a
protein in the muscles). However, it often occurs in people without a known
family history of the condition.

The condition most often affects boys due to the way the disease is inherited.
The sons of women who are carriers of the disease (women with a defective
gene, but no symptoms themselves) each have a 50% chance of having the
disease. The daughters each have a 50% chance of being carriers. Very rarely,
a female can be affected by the disease.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy occurs in about 1 out of every 3,600 male infants.
Because this is an inherited disorder, risks include a family history of
Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often appear before age 6. They may come on as early as infancy.
Most boys show no symptoms in the first few years of life.

Symptoms may include:

      * Fatigue
      * Learning difficulties (the IQ can be below 75)
      * Intellectual disability (possible, but does not get worse over time) 

Muscle weakness:

      * Begins in the legs and pelvis, but also occurs less severely in the arms, neck, and other areas of the body
      * Problems with motor skills (running, hopping, jumping)
      * Frequent falls
      * Trouble getting up from a lying position or climbing stairs
      * Shortness of breath, fatigue and swelling of the feet due to a weakening of the heart muscle
      * Problem breathing due to a weakening of the respiratory muscles
      * Gradual worsening of muscle weakness

Progressive difficulty walking:

      * Ability to walk may be lost by age 12, and the child will have to use a wheelchair.
      * Breathing difficulties and heart disease often start by age 20. 

## Exams and Tests

A complete nervous system (neurological), heart, lung, and muscle exam may
show:

      * Abnormal heart muscle (cardiomyopathy) becomes evident by the age of 10.
      * Congestive heart failure or irregular heart rhythm (arrhythmia) is present in all people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy by the age of 18.
      * Deformities of the chest and back (scoliosis).
      * Enlarged muscles of the calves, buttocks, and shoulders (around age 4 or 5). These muscles are eventually replaced by fat and connective tissue (pseudohypertrophy).
      * Loss of muscle mass (wasting).
      * Muscle contractures in the heels, legs.
      * Muscle deformities.
      * Respiratory disorders, including pneumonia and swallowing with food or fluid passing into the lungs (in late stages of the disease).

Tests may include:

      * Electromyography (EMG)
      * Genetic tests
      * Muscle biopsy
      * Serum CPK

## Treatment

There is no known cure for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Treatment aims to
control symptoms to improve quality of life.

Steroid drugs can slow the loss of muscle strength. They may be started when
the child is diagnosed or when muscle strength begins to decline.

Other treatments may include:

      * Albuterol, a drug used for people with asthma
      * Amino acids
      * Carnitine
      * Coenzyme Q10
      * Creatine
      * Fish oil
      * Green tea extracts
      * Vitamin E 

However, the effects of these treatments have not been proven. Stem cells and
gene therapy may be used in the future.

The use of steroids and the lack of physical activity can lead to excessive
weight gain. Activity is encouraged. Inactivity (such as bedrest) can make the
muscle disease worse. Physical therapy may help to maintain muscle strength
and function. Speech therapy is often needed.

Other treatments may include:

      * Assisted ventilation (used during the day or night)
      * Drugs to help heart function, such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, beta blockers, and diuretics
      * Orthopedic appliances (such as braces and wheelchairs) to improve mobility
      * Spine surgery to treat progressive scoliosis for some people
      * Proton pump inhibitors (for people with gastroesophageal reflux) 

Several new treatments are being studied in trials.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group where members
share common experiences and problems. The Muscular Dystrophy AssociationÂ is
an excellent source of information on this disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Duchenne muscular dystrophy leads to progressively worsening disability. Death
often occurs by age 25, typically from lung disorders. However, advances in
supportive care have resulted in many men living longer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cardiomyopathy (can also occur in female carriers, who should also be screened)
      * Congestive heart failure (rare)
      * Deformities
      * Heart arrhythmias (rare)
      * Mental impairment (varies, usually minimal)
      * Permanent, progressive disability, including decreased mobility and decreased ability to care for self
      * Pneumonia or other respiratory infections
      * Respiratory failure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Your child has symptoms of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
      * Symptoms get worse or new symptoms develop, particularly fever with cough or breathing problems. 

## Prevention

People with a family history of the disorder may want to seek genetic
counseling. Genetic studies done during pregnancy are very accurate in
detecting Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

## Alternative Names

Pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy; Muscular dystrophy - Duchenne type

## Images

      * ![X-linked recessive genetic defects - how boys are affected](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19095t.jpg)X-linked recessive genetic defects - how boys are affected
      * ![X-linked recessive genetic defects](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19097t.jpg)X-linked recessive genetic defects

## References

Muscular Dystrophy Association website. www.mda.org/disease/duchenne-muscular-
dystrophy. Accessed December 7, 2017.

Sarnat HB. Muscular dystrophies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 609.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

Warner WC, Sawyer JR. Neuromuscular disorders. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Distrofia
muscular](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscularDystrophy_thumb.jpg)Muscular
Dystrophy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

