Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000243.htm    
                                Description: The cornea is the clear outer lens on the front of the eye. A corneal transplant is surgery to replace the cornea with tissue from a donor. It is one of the most common transplants done.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Corneal transplant - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000243.htm

# Corneal transplant - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The cornea is the clear outer lens on the front of the eye. A corneal
transplant is surgery to replace the cornea with tissue from a donor. It is
one of the most common transplants done.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had a corneal transplant. There are two ways to do this.

      * In one (penetrating or PK), most of the tissue of your cornea (the clear surface on the front of your eye) was replaced with tissue from a donor. During your surgery, a small round piece of your cornea was taken out. Then the donated cornea was sewn onto the opening of your eye.
      * In the other (lamellar or DSEK) only the inner layers of the cornea are transplanted. Recovery is often faster with this method.

Numbing medicine was injected into the area around your eye so you did not
feel any pain during surgery. You may have taken a sedative to help you relax.

## What to Expect at Home

If you had a PK, the first stage of healing will take about 3 weeks. After
this, you will likely need contact lenses or glasses. These may need to be
changed or adjusted several times in the first year after your transplant.

If you had a DSEK, visual recovery is often quicker and you may even be able
to use your old glasses.

## Self-care

DO NOT touch or rub your eye.

If you had a PK, your health care provider probably put a patch over your eye
at the end of surgery. You can remove this patch the next morning but you will
probably have an eye shield for sleeping. This protects the new cornea from
injury. During the day, you will probably need to wear dark sunglasses.

If you had a DSEK, you probably won't have a patch or shield after the first
day. Sunglasses will still be helpful.

You should not drive, operate machinery, drink alcohol, or make any major
decisions for at least 24 hours after surgery. The sedative will take this
long to fully wear off. Before it does, it may make you very sleepy and unable
to think clearly.

Limit activities that could make you fall or increase pressure on your eye,
such as climbing a ladder or dancing. Avoid heavy lifting. Try not to do
things that place your head lower than the rest of your body. It may help to
sleep with your upper body elevated by a couple pillows. Stay away from dust
and blowing sand.

Follow your provider's instructions for using eye drops carefully. The drops
help prevent infection. They also help prevent your body from rejecting your
new cornea.

Follow up with your provider as directed. You may need to have stitches
removed, and your provider will want to check your healing and eyesight.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Decreased vision 
      * Flashes of light or floaters in your eye 
      * Light sensitivity (sunlight or bright lights hurt your eye) 
      * More redness in your eye 
      * Eye pain 

## Alternative Names

Keratoplasty - discharge; Penetrating keratoplasty - discharge; Lamellar
keratoplasty - discharge; DSEK - discharge; DMEK - discharge

## References

Gibbons A, Sayed-Ahmed IO, Mercado CL, Chang VS, Karp CL. Corneal surgery. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.27.

Shah KJ, Holland EJ, Mannis MJ. Corneal transplantation in ocular surface
disease. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ, eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 160.

## Read More

      * Corneal transplant
      * Vision problems

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Corneal Disorders
      * Refractive Errors

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

