Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001020.htm    
                                Description: Farsightedness is having a harder time seeing object that are close than things that are far away.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Farsightedness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001020.htm

# Farsightedness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Farsightedness is having a harder time seeing object that are close than
things that are far away.

## Causes

Farsightedness is the result of the visual image being focused behind the
retina rather than directly on it. It may be caused by the eyeball being too
small or the focusing power being too weak.

Farsightedness is often present from birth. However, children have a very
flexible eye lens, which helps make up for the problem. As aging occurs,
glasses or contact lenses may be needed to correct the vision. If you have
family members who are farsighted, you are also more likely to become
farsighted.

![Seeing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200013t.gif)Watch this
video about:Seeing

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Aching eyes
      * Blurred visionÂ when looking atÂ close objects
      * Crossed eyes (strabismus) in some children
      * Eye strain
      * Headache while reading 

Mild farsightedness may not cause any problems. However, you may need reading
glasses.

## Exams and Tests

A general eye exam to diagnose farsightedness may include the following tests:

      * Eye movement testing
      * Glaucoma testing
      * Refraction test
      * Retinal examination
      * Slit-lamp examination
      * Visual acuity

This list is not all-inclusive.

## Treatment

Farsightedness is easily corrected with glasses or contact lenses. Surgery is
available for correcting farsightedness in adults. This is an option for those
who do not wish to wear glasses or contacts.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is expected to be good.

## Possible Complications

Farsightedness can be a risk factor for glaucoma andÂ crossed eyes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or eye doctor if you have symptoms of
farsightedness and you have not had a recent eye exam.

Also, call if vision begins to get worse after you have been diagnosed with
farsightedness.

See a provider right away if you think you have farsightedness and you
suddenly develop the following symptoms:

      * Severe eye pain
      * Eye redness
      * Decreased vision

## Alternative Names

Hyperopia

## Images

      * ![Visual acuity test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1124t.jpg)Visual acuity test
      * ![Normal, nearsightedness, and farsightedness](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19511t.jpg)Normal, nearsightedness, and farsightedness
      * ![Normal vision](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9925t.jpg)Normal vision
      * ![Lasik eye surgery - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19559t.jpg)Lasik eye surgery - series

## References

Diniz D, Irochima F, Schor P. Optics of the human eye. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 2.2.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Refractive
Errors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefractiveErrors_thumb.jpg)Refractive
Errors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

