Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003844.htm    
                                Description: A refraction is an eye exam that measures a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Refraction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003844.htm

# Refraction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A refraction is an eye exam that measures a person's prescription for
eyeglasses or contact lenses.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is performed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist. Both of these
professionals are often called "eye doctor."

You sit in a chair that has a special device (called a phoroptor or refractor)
attached to it. You look through the device and focus on an eye chart 20 feet
(6 meters) away. The device contains lenses of different strengths that can be
moved into your view. The test is performed one eye at a time.

The eye doctor will then ask if the chart appears more or less clear when
different lenses are in place.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If you wear contact lenses, ask the doctor if you need to remove them and for
how long before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test can be done as part of a routine eye exam. The purpose is to
determine whether you have a refractive error (a need for glasses or contact
lenses).

For people over age 40 who have normal distance vision but difficulty with
near vision, a refraction test can determine the right power of reading
glasses.

## Normal Results

If your uncorrected vision (without glasses or contact lenses) is normal, then
the refractive error is zero (plano) and your vision should be 20/20 (or 1.0).

A value of 20/20 (1.0) is normal vision. This means you can read 3/8-inch (1
centimeter) letters at 20 feet (6 meters). A small type size is also used to
determine normal near vision.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

You have a refractive error if you need a combination of lenses to see 20/20
(1.0). Glasses or contact lenses should give you good vision. If you have a
refractive error, you have a "prescription." Your prescription is a series of
numbers that describe the powers of the lenses needed to make you see clearly.

If your final vision is less than 20/20 (1.0), even with lenses, then there is
probably another, non-optical problem with your eye.

The vision level you achieve during the refraction test is called the best-
corrected visual acuity (BCVA).

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Astigmatism (abnormally curved cornea causing blurred vision)
      * Hyperopia (farsightedness)
      * Myopia (nearsightedness)
      * Presbyopia (inability to focus on near objects that develops with age) 

Other conditions under which the test may be performed:

      * Corneal ulcers and infections
      * Loss of sharp vision due to macular degeneration
      * Retinal detachment (separation of the light-sensitive membrane (retina) in the back of the eye from its supporting layers)
      * Retinal vessel occlusion (blockage in a small artery that carries blood to the retina)
      * Retinitis pigmentosa (an inherited disorder of the retina)

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Considerations

You should have a complete eye examination every 3 to 5 years if you have no
problems. If your vision becomes blurry, worsens, or if there are other
noticeable changes, schedule an exam right away.

After age 40 (or for people with a family history of glaucoma), eye exams
should be scheduled at least once a year to test for glaucoma. Anyone with
diabetes should also have an eye exam at least once a year.

People with a refractive error should have an eye exam every 1 to 2 years, or
when their vision changes.

## Alternative Names

Eye exam - refraction; Vision test - refraction; Refraction

## Images

      * ![Normal vision](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9925t.jpg)Normal vision

## References

Chuck RS, Jacobs DS, Lee JK, et al; American Academy of Ophthalmology
Preferred Practice Pattern Refractive Management/Intervention Panel.
Refractive errors & refractive surgery Preferred Practice Pattern.
_Ophthalmology_. 2018;125(1):1-104. PMID: 29108748
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29108748.

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al; American Academy of Ophthalmology.
Comprehensive adult medical eye evaluation preferred practice pattern
guidelines. _Ophthalmology_. 2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

Wu A. Clinical refraction. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 2.3.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Refractive
Errors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefractiveErrors_thumb.jpg)Refractive
Errors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

