Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001026.htm    
                                Description: Presbyopia is a condition in which the lens of the eye loses its ability to focus. This makes it hard to see objects up close.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Presbyopia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001026.htm

# Presbyopia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Presbyopia is a condition in which the lens of the eye loses its ability to
focus. This makes it hard to see objects up close.

## Causes

The lens of the eye needs to change shape to focus on objects that are close.
The ability of the lens to change shape is because of the elasticity of the
lens. This elasticity decreases slowly as people age. The result is a slow
loss in the ability of the eye to focus on nearby objects.

People most often begin to notice the condition at around age 45, when they
realize that they need to hold reading materials farther away in order to
focus on them. Presbyopia is a natural part of the aging process and it
affects everyone.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Decreased focusing ability for near objects
      * Eyestrain
      * Headache 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a general eye exam. This will include
measurements to determine a prescription for glasses or contact lenses.

Tests may include:

      * Exam of the retina
      * Muscle integrity test
      * Refraction test
      * Slit-lamp test
      * Visual acuity

## Treatment

There is no cure for presbyopia. In early presbyopia, you may find that
holding reading materials farther away or using larger print or more light for
reading may be enough. As presbyopia worsens, you will need glasses or contact
lenses to read. In some cases, adding bifocals to an existing lens
prescription is the best solution. The reading glasses or bifocal prescription
will need to be strengthened as you get older and lose more ability to focus
up close.

By the age of 65, most of the lens elasticity is lost so that the reading
glasses prescription won't continue to get stronger.

People who do not need glasses for distance vision may only need half glasses
or reading glasses.

People who are nearsighted may be able to take off their distance glasses to
read.

With the use of contact lenses, some people choose to correct one eye for near
vision and one eye for far vision. This is called "monovision." The technique
eliminates the need for bifocals or reading glasses, but it can affect depth
perception.

Sometimes, monovision can be produced through laser vision correction. There
are also bifocal contact lenses that can correct for both near and far vision
in both eyes.

New surgical procedures are being evaluated that can also provide solutions
for people who do not want to wear glasses or contacts. Two promising
procedures involve implanting a lens or a pinhole membrane in the cornea.
These very often can be reversed, if necessary.

There are two new classes of eye drops in development that may be able to help
people with presbyopia.

      * One type makes the pupil smaller, which increases the depth of focus, similar to a pinhole camera. A drawback of these drops is that things appear slightly dimmer. Also, the drops wear off over the course of the day, and you may have a harder time seeing when you go from bright light to dark.
      * The other type of drops works by softening the natural lens, which becomes inflexible in presbyopia. This allows the lens to change shape as it did when you were younger. The long-term effects of these drops are unknown.

People who are having cataract surgery can choose to have a special type of
lens implant that allows them to see clearly in the distance and up close.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Vision can be corrected with glasses or contact lenses.

## Possible Complications

Vision difficulty that gets worse over time and is not corrected can cause
problems with driving, lifestyle, or work.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or ophthalmologist if you have eye strain or have trouble
focusing on close objects.

## Prevention

There is no proven prevention for presbyopia.

## Images

      * ![Farsighted](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9926t.jpg)Farsighted

## References

Alio JL, Azar DT, Stasi K, Soria FA. Surgical correction of presbyopia. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 3.10.

Crouch ER, Crouch ER, Grant TR. Ophthalmology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 17.

Donahue SP. Presbyopia and loss of accommodation. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 9.21.

Reilly CD, Waring GO. Decision making in refractive surgery. In: Mannis MJ,
Holland EJ, eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 161.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Refractive
Errors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefractiveErrors_thumb.jpg)Refractive
Errors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

