Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003008.htm    
                                Description: The cornea is the clear outer lens on the front of the eye. A corneal transplant is surgery to replace the cornea with tissue from a donor. It is one of the most common transplants done.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Corneal transplant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003008.htm

# Corneal transplant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The cornea is the clear outer lens on the front of the eye. A corneal
transplant is surgery to replace the cornea with tissue from a donor. It is
one of the most common transplants done.

## Description

You will most likely be awake during the transplant. You will get medicine to
relax you. Local anesthesia (numbing medicine) will be injected around your
eye to block pain and prevent eye movement during the surgery.

The tissue for your corneal transplant will come from a person (donor) who has
recently died. The donated cornea is processed and tested by a local eye bank
to make sure it is safe for use in your surgery.

For years, the most common type of corneal transplant was called penetrating
keratoplasty.

      * It is still a frequently performed operation.
      * During this procedure, your surgeon will remove a small round piece of your cornea.
      * The donated tissue will then be sewn into the opening of your cornea.

A newer technique is called lamellar keratoplasty.

      * In this procedure, only the inner or outer layers of the cornea are replaced, rather than all the layers, as in penetrating keratoplasty.
      * There are several different lamellar techniques. They differ mostly on which layer is replaced and how the donor tissue is prepared.
      * All lamellar procedures lead to faster recovery and fewer complications.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A corneal transplant is recommended for people who have:

      * Vision problems caused by thinning of the cornea, most often due to keratoconus. (A transplant may be considered when less invasive treatments are not an option.)
      * Scarring of the cornea from severe infections or injuries
      * Vision loss caused by cloudiness of the cornea, most often due to Fuchs dystrophy

## Risks

The body may reject the transplanted tissue. This occurs in about 1 out of 3
patients in the first 5 years. Rejection can sometimes be controlled with
steroid eye drops.

Other risks for a corneal transplant are:

      * Bleeding
      * Cataracts
      * Infection of the eye
      * Glaucoma (high pressure in the eye that can cause vision loss)
      * Loss of vision
      * Scarring of the eye
      * Swelling of the cornea 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider about any medical conditions you may have,
including allergies. Also tell your provider what medicines you are taking,
even drugs, supplements, and herbs you bought without a prescription.

You may need to limit medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot
(blood thinners) for 10 days before the surgery. Some of these are aspirin,
ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and warfarin (Coumadin).

Ask your provider which of your other daily medicines, such as water pills,
insulin or pills for diabetes, you should take on the morning of your surgery.

You will need to stop eating and drinking most fluids after midnight the night
before your surgery. Most providers will let you have water, apple juice, and
plain coffee or tea (without cream or sugar) up to 2 hours before surgery. DO
NOTÂ drink alcohol 24 hours before or after surgery.

On the day of your surgery, wear loose, comfortable clothing. DO NOT wear any
jewelry. DO NOT put creams, lotions, or makeup on your face or around your
eyes.

You will need to have someone drive you home after your surgery.

Note: These are general guidelines. Your surgeon may give you other
instructions.

## After the Procedure

You will go home on the same day as your surgery. Your provider will give you
an eye patch to wear for about 1 to 4 days.

Your provider will prescribe eye drops to help your eye heal and prevent
infection and rejection.

Your provider will remove the stitches at a follow-up visit. Some stitches
mayÂ stay in place for as long as a year, or they might not be removed at all.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery of eyesight may take up to a year. This is because it takes time
for the swelling to go down. Most people who have a successful corneal
transplant will have good vision for many years. If you have other eye
problems, you may still have vision loss from those conditions.Â

You may need glasses or contact lenses to achieve the best vision. Laser
vision correction may be an option if you have nearsightedness,
farsightedness, or astigmatism after the transplant has fully healed.

## Alternative Names

Keratoplasty; Penetrating keratoplasty; Lamellar keratoplasty; Keratoconus -
corneal transplant; Fuchs' dystrophy - corneal transplant

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Corneal transplant - discharge 
      * Preventing falls
      * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

      * ![Before and after corneal surgery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8783t.jpg)Before and after corneal surgery
      * ![Corneal transplant - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10224t.jpg)Corneal transplant - series

## References

Gibbons A, Sayed-Ahmed IO, Mercado CL, Chang VS, Karp CL. Corneal surgery. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.27.

Shah KJ, Holland EJ, Mannis MJ. Corneal transplantation in ocular surface
disease. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ, eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 160.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![Refractive
Errors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefractiveErrors_thumb.jpg)Refractive
Errors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

