Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001015.htm    
                                Description: Astigmatism is a type of refractive error of the eye. Refractive errors cause blurred vision. They are the most common reason why a person goes to see an eye professional.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Astigmatism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001015.htm

# Astigmatism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Astigmatism is a type of refractive error of the eye. Refractive errors cause
blurred vision. They are the most common reason why a person goes to see an
eye professional.

Other types of refractive errors are:

      * Farsightedness
      * Nearsightedness

## Causes

People are able to see because the front part of the eye (cornea) is able to
bend (refract) light and focus it onto the retina. This is the back inside
surface of the eye.

If the light rays are not clearly focused on the retina, the images you see
may be blurry.

With astigmatism, the cornea is abnormally curved. This curve causes vision to
be out of focus.

The cause of astigmatism is unknown. It is most often present from birth.
Astigmatism often occurs together with nearsightedness or farsightedness. If
astigmatism gets worse, it may be a sign of keratoconus.

Astigmatism is very common. It sometimes occurs after certain types of eye
surgery, such as cataract surgery.

## Symptoms

Astigmatism makes it hard to see fine details, either close up or from a
distance.

## Exams and Tests

Astigmatism is easily diagnosed by a standard eye exam with refraction test.
Special tests are not required in most cases.

Children or adults who cannot respond to a normal refraction test can have
their refraction measured by a test that uses reflected light (retinoscopy).

## Treatment

Mild astigmatism may not need to be corrected.

Glasses or contact lenses will correct astigmatism, but do not cure it.

Laser surgery can help change the shape of the cornea surface to eliminate
astigmatism, along with nearsightedness or farsightedness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Astigmatism may change with time, requiring new glasses or contact lenses.
Laser vision correction can most often eliminate, or greatly reduce
astigmatism.

## Possible Complications

In children, uncorrected astigmatism in only one eye may cause amblyopia.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or ophthalmologist if vision problems worsen,
or do not improve with glasses or contact lenses.

## Images

      * ![Visual acuity test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1124t.jpg)Visual acuity test

## References

Jain S, Tibrewal, Kramarevsky N, Hardten DR. Excimer laser photorefractive
keratectomy. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 3.3.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Abnormalities
of refraction and accommodation. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 620.

White PF, Scott CA. Contact lenses. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 2.7.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Refractive
Errors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefractiveErrors_thumb.jpg)Refractive
Errors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

