Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000305.htm    
                                Description: Refractive eye surgery helps improve nearsightedness, farsightedness, and astigmatism. Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Refractive corneal surgery - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000305.htm

# Refractive corneal surgery - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Refractive eye surgery helps improve nearsightedness, farsightedness, and
astigmatism. Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care
provider.

## Questions

Will this surgery help my type of vision problem?

      * Will I still need glasses or contact lenses after the surgery?
      * Will it help with seeing things that are far away? With reading and seeing things close up?
      * Can I have surgery on both eyes at the same time?
      * How long will the results last?
      * What are the risks of having the surgery?
      * Will the surgery be done with the latest technology? 

How do I prepare for this surgery?

      * Do I need a physical exam by my regular doctor?
      * Can I wear my contact lenses before the surgery?
      * Can I use makeup?
      * What if I am pregnant or nursing?
      * Do I need to stop taking my medicines beforehand? 

What happens during the surgery?

      * Will I be asleep or awake?
      * Will I feel any pain?
      * How long will the surgery last?
      * When will I be able to go home?
      * Will I need someone to drive for me? 

How do I take care of my eyes after surgery?

      * What type of eye drops will I use?
      * How long will I need to take them?
      * Can I touch my eyes?
      * When can I take a shower or bath? When can I swim?
      * When will I be able to drive? Work? Exercise?
      * Are there any activities or sports that I will not be able to do after my eyes are healed?
      * Will the surgery cause cataracts? 

What will it be like right after surgery?

      * Will I be able to see?
      * Will I have any pain?
      * Are there any side effects I should expect to have?
      * How soon will it be before my eyesight gets to its best level?
      * If my vision is still blurry, will more surgery help? 

Do I need any follow-up appointments?

For what problems or symptoms should I call the provider?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about refractive eye surgery; Nearsightedness surgery
- what to ask your doctor; LASIK - what to ask your doctor; Laser-assisted in
situ keratomileusis - what to ask your doctor; Laser vision correction - what
to ask your doctor; PRK - what to ask your doctor; SMILE - what to ask your
doctor

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Questions to ask when considering
LASIK. www.aao.org/eye-health/treatments/lasik-questions-to-ask. Updated
December 12, 2015. Accessed October 10, 2018.

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Who is a good candidate for SMILE?
www.aao.org/eye-health/treatments/who-is-good-candidate-smile. Updated May 3,
2018. Accessed October 10, 2018.

Taneri S, Mimura T, Azar DT. Current concepts, classification, and history of
refractive surgery. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 3.1.

Thulasi P, Hou JH, de la Cruz J. Preoperative evaluation for refractive
surgery. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 3.2.

## Read More

      * LASIK eye surgery
      * Vision problems

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Laser Eye Surgery
      * Refractive Errors

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

