Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000418.htm    
                                Description: Marfan syndrome is a disorder of connective tissue. This is the tissue that strengthens the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Marfan syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000418.htm

# Marfan syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Marfan syndrome is a disorder of connective tissue. This is the tissue that
strengthens the body's structures.

Disorders of connective tissue affect the skeletal system, cardiovascular
system, eyes, and skin.

## Causes

Marfan syndrome is caused by defects in a gene called fibrillin-1. Fibrillin-1
plays an important role as the building block for connective tissue in the
body.

The gene defect also causes the long bones of the body to grow too much.
People with this syndrome have tall height and long arms and legs. How this
overgrowth happens is not well understood.

Other areas of the body that are affected include:

      * Lung tissue (there may be a pneumothorax, in which air can escape from the lung into the chest cavity and collapse the lung)
      * The aorta, the main blood vessel that takes blood from the heart to the body may stretch or become weak (called aortic dilation or aortic aneurysm)
      * The eyes, causing cataracts and other problems (such as a dislocation of the lenses)
      * The skin
      * Tissue covering the spinal cord 

In most cases, Marfan syndrome is passed down through families (inherited).
However, up to 30% of people have no family history, which is called
"sporadic." In sporadic cases, the syndrome is believed to be caused by a new
gene change.

## Symptoms

People with Marfan syndrome are very often tall with long, thin arms and legs
and spider-like fingers (called arachnodactyly). The length of the arms is
greater than height when arms are stretched out.

Other symptoms include:

      * A chest that sinks in or sticks out, called funnel chest (pectus excavatum) or pigeon breast (pectus carinatum)
      * Flat feet
      * Highly arched palate and crowded teeth
      * Hypotonia
      * Joints that are too flexible (but the elbows may be less flexible)
      * Learning disability
      * Movement of the lens of the eye from its normal position (dislocation)
      * Nearsightedness
      * Small lower jaw (micrognathia)
      * Spine that curves to one side (scoliosis)
      * Thin, narrow face 

Many people with Marfan syndrome suffer from chronic muscle and joint pain.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The joints may move
around more than normal. There may also be signs of:

      * Aneurysm
      * Collapsed lung
      * Heart valve problems 

An eye exam may show:

      * Defects of the lens or cornea
      * Retinal detachment
      * Vision problems 

The following tests may be performed:

      * Echocardiogram
      * Fibrillin-1 mutation testing (in some people) 

An echocardiogram or another test should be done every year to look at the
base of the aorta and possibly the heart valves.

## Treatment

Vision problems should be treated when possible.

Monitor for scoliosis, especially during the teenage years.

Medicine to slow the heart rate and lower blood pressure may help prevent
stress on the aorta. To avoid injuring the aorta, people with the condition
should avoid participating in contact sports. Some people may need surgery to
replace the aortic root and valve.

People with Marfan syndrome who have heart valve conditions may need to take
antibiotics before dental procedures to prevent endocarditis (infection of the
valves). Pregnant women with Marfan syndrome must be monitored very closely
because of the increased stress on the heart and aorta.

## Support Groups

National Marfan Foundation -- www.marfan.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Heart-related complications may shorten the lifespan of people with this
disease. However, many people live into their 60s and beyond. Good care and
surgery may further extend lifespan.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Aortic regurgitation
      * Aortic rupture
      * Bacterial endocarditis
      * Dissecting aortic aneurysm
      * Enlargement of the base of the aorta
      * Heart failure
      * Mitral valve prolapse
      * Scoliosis
      * Vision problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Couples who have this condition and are planning to have children may want to
talk to a genetic counselor before starting a family.

## Prevention

Spontaneous new gene mutations leading to Marfan (less than one third of
cases) cannot be prevented. If you have Marfan syndrome, see your provider at
least once every year.

## Alternative Names

Aortic aneurysm - Marfan

## Images

      * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum
      * ![Marfan syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9611t.jpg)Marfan syndrome

## References

Doyle A, Doyle JJ, Dietz HC. Marfan syndrome. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 702.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 24th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Marfan
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MarfanSyndrome2_thumb.jpg)Marfan
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

