Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003288.htm    
                                Description: Arachnodactyly is a condition in which the fingers are long, slender, and curved. They look like the legs of a spider (arachnid).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Arachnodactyly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003288.htm

# Arachnodactyly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Arachnodactyly is a condition in which the fingers are long, slender, and
curved. They look like the legs of a spider (arachnid).

## Considerations

Long, slender fingers can be normal and not associated with any medical
problems. In some cases, however, "spider fingers" can be a sign of an
underlying disorder.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Homocystinuria
      * Marfan syndrome
      * Other rare genetic disorders 

Note: Having long, slender fingers may be normal.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Some children are born with arachnodactyly. It may become more evident over
time. Talk to your health care provider if your child has long, slender
fingers and you are concerned that an underlying condition may exist.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. You will be asked questions about
the medical history. This includes:

      * When did you first notice the fingers being shaped like this?
      * Is there any family history of early death? Is there any family history of known hereditary disorders?
      * What other symptoms are present? Have you noticed any other unusual things? 

Diagnostic tests are most often not necessary unless a hereditary disorder is
suspected.

## Alternative Names

Dolichostenomelia (refers to a long, slender body, not just fingers); Spider
fingers; Achromachia

## References

Doyle Al, Doyle JJ, Dietz HC. Marfan syndrome. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 702.

Herring JA. Orthopaedic-related syndromes. In: Herring JA, ed. _Tachdjian's
Pediatric Orthopaedics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 41.

Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo M. Pattern of malformation differential
diagnosis by anomalies: limbs. In: Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo M, eds.
_Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human Malformation_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:Appendix 1.15

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Marfan
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MarfanSyndrome2_thumb.jpg)Marfan
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

