Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003365.htm    
                                Description: Urine melanin test is a test to determine the abnormal presence of melanin in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine melanin test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003365.htm

# Urine melanin test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine melanin test is a test to determine the abnormal presence of melanin in
the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch urine sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to diagnose melanoma, a type of skin cancer that produces
melanin. If the cancer spreads (especially within the liver), the cancer may
produce enough of this substance that it shows up in the urine.

## Normal Results

Normally, melanin is not present in urine.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If melanin is present in the urine, malignant melanoma is suspected.

## Risks

There are no risks associated with this test.

## Considerations

This test is rarely done anymore to diagnose melanoma because there are better
tests available.

## Alternative Names

Thormahlen's test; Melanin - urine

## Images

      * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Melanin - urine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:771-772.

Gangadhar TC, Fecher LA, Miller CJ, et al. Melanoma. In: Niederhuber JE,
Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 69.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Melanoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Melanoma2_thumb.jpg)Melanoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

