Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000850.htm    
                                Description: Melanoma is the most dangerous type of skin cancer. It is the leading cause of death from skin disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Melanoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000850.htm

# Melanoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Melanoma is the most dangerous type of skin cancer. It is the leading cause of
death from skin disease.

![Melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9762.jpg)

Melanoma can also involve the eye, particularly the retina.

Other common types of skin cancer are squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell
carcinoma.

## Causes

Melanoma is caused by changes (mutations) in skin cells called melanocytes.
These cells make a skin color pigment called melanin. Melanin is responsible
for skin and hair color.

Melanoma can appear on normal skin. Sometimes it can develop from moles. Moles
that are present at birth may develop into melanomas. Larger moles that are
present at birth may be at higher risk of developing melanoma.

There are four major types of melanoma:

      *  **Superficial spreading melanoma** is the most common type. It is usually flat and irregular in shape and color, with different shades of black and brown. It is most common in Caucasians.
      *  **Nodular melanoma** usually starts as a raised area that is dark blackish-blue or bluish-red. Some do not have any color (amelanotic melanoma).
      *  **Lentigo maligna melanoma** usually occurs in older people. It is most common in sun-damaged skin on the face, neck, and arms. The abnormal skin areas are usually large, flat, and tan with areas of brown.
      *  **Acral lentiginous melanoma** is the least common form. It usually occurs on the palms, soles, or under the nails. It is more common in non-Caucasian skin. 

In rare cases, melanomas appear in the mouth, iris of the eye, or retina at
the back of the eye. These may be found during dental or eye exams. In very
rare cases, a melanoma develops in the vagina, esophagus, anus, urinary tract
or intestine.

Melanoma is not as common as other types of skin cancer, such as basal cell
carcinoma. But more and more people are developing melanoma, especially young
adults.

The risk of developing melanoma increases with age, though the risk is rising
in young people.

You are more likely to develop melanoma if you:

      * Have fair skin, blue or green eyes, or red or blond hair
      * Live in sunny climates or at high altitudes
      * Spent a lot of time in high levels of strong sunlight because of a job or other activities
      * Have had one or more blistering sunburns during childhood
      * Use tanning devices 

Other risk factors include:

      * Having close relatives with melanoma
      * Certain types of moles (atypical or dysplastic) or many birthmarks
      * Weakened immune system due to disease or medicines 

## Symptoms

A mole, sore, lump, or growth on the skin can be a sign of melanoma or other
skin cancer. A sore or growth that bleeds, or changes in color can also be a
sign of skin cancer.

![Skin cancer, melanoma - flat, brown
lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1528.jpg)

The **ABCDE** system can help you remember possible symptoms of melanoma:

      *  **A** symmetry: One half of the abnormal area is different from the other half.
      *  **B** orders: The edges of the growth are irregular.
      *  **C** olor: Color changes from one area to another, with shades of tan, brown, or black, and sometimes white, red, or blue. A mixture of colors may appear within one sore.
      *  **D** iameter: The spot is usually (but not always) larger than 6 mm in diameter -- about the size of a pencil eraser.
      *  **E** volution: The mole keeps changing appearance. 

Another way to look for possible melanoma is the "ugly duckling sign." This
means the melanoma does not look like any of the other spots on the body. It
stands out like the ugly duckling in the children's story.

The key to successfully treating melanoma is recognizing symptoms early. You
might not notice a small spot if you do not look carefully. Have yearly skin
checks by your provider, and examine your own skin once a month. Use a hand
mirror to check hard-to-see places. Call your provider if you notice anything
unusual.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will check your skin and look at the size, shape, color, and
texture of any suspicious areas. The provider should use a tool called a
dermoscope to examine you. Using this device may allow for earlier detection
of melanoma. If your provider thinks you might have skin cancer, a piece of
skin from the growth will be removed. This is called a skin biopsy. The sample
is sent to a lab for examination under a microscope.

A sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy may be done in some people with melanoma to
see if the cancer has spread to nearby lymph nodes.

Once melanoma has been diagnosed, CT scans or other types of x-rays may be
done to see if the cancer has spread.

## Treatment

Surgery is almost always needed to treat melanoma. The skin cancer and some
surrounding area will be removed. How much skin is removed depends on how deep
the melanoma has grown.

If the cancer has spread to nearby lymph nodes, these lymph nodes may also be
removed. After surgery, depending on the risk of the disease returning, you
may receive chemotherapy or immunotherapy.

Treatment is more difficult when the melanoma has spread to other organs.
Treatment involves shrinking the skin cancer and treating the cancer in other
areas of the body. You may receive:

      * Chemotherapy: Medicines are used to kill cancer cells directly.
      * Immunotherapy: These include drugs such as interferon to help your immune system fight the cancer, or other drugs that boost your immune system's ability to find cancer cells and kill them. They may be used along with chemotherapy and surgery.
      * Radiation treatments: These may be used to relieve pain or discomfort caused by cancer that has spread.
      * Surgery: Surgery may be done to remove cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. This is done to relieve pain or discomfort associated with the growing cancer.
      * Topical medicines that stimulate the immune system in local areas.

If you have melanoma that is hard to treat, you might consider enrolling in a
clinical trial. Ask your doctor for more information. Researchers continue to
study new treatments.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on many things, including how soon the cancer was
diagnosed, and how far it has spread.

If caught early, most melanomas can be cured.

Melanoma that is very deep or has spread to the lymph nodes is more likely to
return after treatment. If it is deeper than 4 mm or has spread to the lymph
nodes, the cancer is more likely to have spread to other tissues and organs.

If you have had melanoma and recovered, it is very important to examine your
body regularly for any unusual changes. Your risk of melanoma increases once
you have had this cancer. Melanoma can return years later. Usually, people who
have had melanoma are checked by their skin doctor several times a year.

## Possible Complications

Melanoma can spread to other parts of the body very quickly.

Melanoma treatment can cause side effects, including pain, nausea, and
fatigue.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice a new growth or any other changes in your
skin. You should also call if an existing spot becomes painful, swollen, or
inflamed, or if it starts to bleed or itch.

## Prevention

Some people should see a dermatologist for regular skin exams. These include
people with:

      * A family history of melanoma
      * Severely sun-damaged skin
      * Lots of moles on their skin 

A skin doctor can examine you and tell you whether you need regular skin
checks. Sometimes, unusual moles are removed to prevent them from turning into
melanoma.

You should also examine your own skin once a month.Use a mirror to check hard-
to-see places. Use the ABCDE system and the "ugly duckling" sign when checking
your skin. Call your provider if you notice any changes.

The best way to prevent skin cancer is to reduce your exposure to sunlight.
Ultraviolet light is most intense between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Try to avoid sun
exposure during these hours. Protect your skin by wearing a hat, long-sleeved
shirt, long skirt, or pants when you have to be outside. The following tips
can also help:

      * Apply high-quality sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) rating of 30 or higher, even when you are only going outdoors for a short time.
      * Apply a large amount of sunscreen on all exposed areas, including ears and feet.
      * Look for sunscreens that block both UVA and UVB light.Â These will have the label "broad spectrum."
      * Use a waterproof formula if exposed to water.
      * Apply sunscreen at least 30 minutes before going outside. Reapply it often, especially after swimming.
      * Use sunscreen in winter, too. Protect yourself even on cloudy days.Â 

Other important facts to help you avoid too much sun exposure:

      * Avoid surfaces that reflect more light, such as water, sand, concrete, and white-painted areas.
      * Be extra careful at higher altitudes, where skin burns faster.
      * Avoid sun lamps, tanning beds, and tanning salons.Â 

Even though melanoma can develop in some moles, doctors feel that there is no
advantage to remove moles to prevent melanoma.

## Alternative Names

Skin cancer - melanoma; Malignant melanoma; Lentigo maligna melanoma; Melanoma
in situ; Superficial spreading melanoma; Nodular melanoma; Acral lentiginous
melanoma

## Images

      * ![Melanoma of the liver - MRI scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1189t.jpg)Melanoma of the liver - MRI scan
      * ![Skin cancer - malignant melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1526t.jpg)Skin cancer - malignant melanoma
      * ![Skin cancer - raised multi-color melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1527t.jpg)Skin cancer - raised multi-color melanoma
      * ![Skin cancer, melanoma - flat, brown lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1528t.jpg)Skin cancer, melanoma - flat, brown lesion
      * ![Skin cancer, melanoma on the fingernail](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2439t.jpg)Skin cancer, melanoma on the fingernail
      * ![Skin cancer, close-up of lentigo maligna melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2498t.jpg)Skin cancer, close-up of lentigo maligna melanoma
      * ![Skin cancer - melanoma superficial spreading](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2501t.jpg)Skin cancer - melanoma superficial spreading
      * ![Melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9762t.jpg)Melanoma
      * ![Skin cancer, melanoma - raised, dark lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1707t.jpg)Skin cancer, melanoma - raised, dark lesion
      * ![Malignant melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9522t.jpg)Malignant melanoma

## References

Garbe C, Bauer J. Melanoma. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 113.

National Cancer Institute website. Melanoma treatment (PDQ) â health
professional version.Â www.cancer.gov/types/skin/hp/melanoma-treatment-pdq.
Updated March 22, 2018. Accessed April 24, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: melanoma. Version 2. 2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/melanoma.pdf. Updated January 19,
2018. Accessed April 24, 2018.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Melanoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Melanoma2_thumb.jpg)Melanoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

