Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001022.htm    
                                Description: Melanoma of the eye is cancer that occurs in various parts of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Melanoma of the eye

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001022.htm

# Melanoma of the eye

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Melanoma of the eye is cancer that occurs in various parts of the eye.

## Causes

Melanoma is a very aggressive type of cancer that can spread rapidly. It
usually is a type of skin cancer.

Melanoma of the eye can affect several parts of the eye, including the:

      * Choroid
      * Ciliary body
      * Conjunctiva
      * Eyelid
      * Iris
      * Orbit 

The choroid layer is the most likely site of melanoma in the eye. This is the
layer of blood vessels and connective tissue between the white of the eye and
retina (back of the eye).

The cancer may only be in the eye. Or, it may spread (metastasize) to another
location in the body, most commonly the liver. Melanoma can also begin on the
skin or other organs in the body and spread to the eye.

Melanoma is the most common type of eye tumor in adults. Even so, melanoma
that starts in the eye is rare.

Too much exposure to sunlight is an important risk factor for melanoma. People
who have fair-skin and blue eyes are most affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of melanoma of the eye may include any of the following:

      * Bulging eyes
      * Change in iris color
      * Poor vision in one eye
      * Red, painful eye
      * Small defect on the iris or conjunctiva

In some cases, there may be no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

An eye examination with an ophthalmoscope may reveal a single round or oval
lump (tumor) in the eye.

Tests that may be orderedÂ include:

      * Brain CTÂ or MRI scan to look for spread (metastasis) to the brain
      * Eye ultrasound
      * Skin biopsy if there is an affected area on the skin

## Treatment

Small melanomas may be treated with:

      * Surgery
      * Laser
      * Radiation therapy (such as Gamma Knife, CyberKnife, brachytherapy) 

Surgery to remove the eye (enucleation) may be needed.

Other treatments that may be used include:

      * Chemotherapy, if the cancer has spread beyond the eye
      * Immunotherapy, which uses medicines to help your immune system fight the melanoma 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining aÂ cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome for melanoma of the eye depends on the size of the cancer when it
is diagnosed. Most people survive at least 5 years from the time of diagnosis
if the cancer has not spread outside the eye.

If the cancer has spread outside the eye, the chance of long-term survival is
much lower.

## Possible Complications

Â Problems that may develop due to melanoma of the eye include:

      * Distortion or loss of vision
      * Retinal detachment
      * Spread of the tumor to other areas of the body

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you have symptoms of
melanoma of the eye.

## Prevention

The most important way to prevent melanoma of the eye is toÂ protect the eyes
fromÂ sunlight, especially between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., when the sun's rays are
most intense. Wear sunglasses that have ultraviolet protection.

A yearly eye exam is recommended.

## Alternative Names

Malignant melanoma - choroid; Malignant melanoma - eye; Eye tumor; Ocular
melanoma

## Images

      * ![Retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8903t.jpg)Retina

## References

Augsburger JJ, Correa ZM, Berry JL. Malignant intraocular neoplasms. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 8.1.

National Cancer Institute website. Intraocular (uveal) melanoma treatment
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/eye/hp/intraocular-
melanoma-treatment-pdq. Updated March 24, 2019. Accessed August 2, 2019.

Seddon JM, McCannel TA. Epidemiology of posterior uveal melanoma. In: Schachat
AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 143.

Shields CL, Shields JA. Overview of management of posterior uveal melanoma.
In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's
Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 147.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeCancer_thumb.jpg)Eye Cancer
_Read more_

![Melanoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Melanoma2_thumb.jpg)Melanoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

