Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003026.htm    
                                Description: Prognathism is an extension or bulging out (protrusion) of the lower jaw (mandible). It occurs when the teeth are not properly aligned due to the shape of the face bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prognathism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003026.htm

# Prognathism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prognathism is an extension or bulging out (protrusion) of the lower jaw
(mandible). It occurs when the teeth are not properly aligned due to the shape
of the face bones.

## Considerations

Prognathism may cause malocclusion (misalignment of the biting surfaces of the
upper and lower teeth). It can give a person an angry, or fighter's
appearance. Prognathism may be a symptom of other syndromes or conditions.

## Causes

An extended (protruding) jaw can be part of a person's normal face shape that
is present at birth.

It can also be caused by inherited conditions, such as Crouzon syndrome or
basal cell nevus syndrome.

It may develop over time in children or adults as the result of conditions
such as gigantism or acromegaly.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A dentist or orthodontist may be able to treat abnormal alignment of the jaw
and teeth. Your primary health care provider should also be involved to check
for underlying medical disorders that can be associated with prognathism.

Call a provider if:

      * You or your child have difficulty talking, biting, or chewing related to the abnormal jaw alignment.
      * You have concerns about jaw alignment. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions regarding your
medical history. Questions may include:

      * Is there any family history of an unusual jaw shape?
      * Is there difficulty talking, biting, or chewing?
      * What other symptoms do you have? 

Diagnostic tests may include:

      * Skull x-ray (panoramic and cephalometric)
      * Dental x-rays
      * Imprints of the bite (a plaster mold is made of the teeth) 

This condition may be treated with surgery. An oral surgeon, plastic facial
surgeon, or ENT specialist may perform this surgery.

## Alternative Names

Extended chin

## Images

      * ![Prognathism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17265t.jpg)Prognathism
      * ![Malocclusion of teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8500t.jpg)Malocclusion of teeth

## References

Goldstein JA, Baker SB. Cleft and craniofacial orthognathic surgery. In:
Rodriguez ED, Losee JE, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3:
Craniofacial, Head and Neck Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Taub DI, Jacobs JMS, Jacobs JS. Anthropometry, cephalometry, and orthognathic
surgery. In: Neligan PC, ed. _Plastic Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 16.

Whyte MP. Hereditary disorders of the skeleton. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 68.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![Jaw Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JawInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Jaw
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

