Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003306.htm    
                                Description: Micrognathia is a term for a lower jaw that is smaller than normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Micrognathia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003306.htm

# Micrognathia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Micrognathia is a term for a lower jaw that is smaller than normal.

## Considerations

In some cases, the jaw is small enough to interfere with the infant's feeding.
Infants with this condition may need special nipples in order to feed
properly.

Micrognathia often corrects itself during growth. The jaw may grow a lot
during puberty. The problem can be caused by certain inherited disorders and
syndromes.

Micrognathia can cause the teeth not to align properly. This can be seen in
the way the teeth close. Often there will not be enough room for the teeth to
grow.

Children with this problem should see an orthodontist when the adult teeth
come in. Because children may outgrow the condition, it often makes sense to
delay treatment until a child is older.

## Causes

Micrognathia may be part of other genetic syndromes, including:

      * Cri du chat syndrome
      * Hallerman-Streiff syndrome
      * Marfan syndrome
      * Pierre Robin syndrome
      * Progeria
      * Russell-Silver syndrome
      * Seckel syndrome
      * Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome
      * Treacher-Collins syndrome
      * Trisomy 13
      * Trisomy 18
      * XO syndrome (Turner syndrome) 

## Home Care

You may need to use special feeding methods for a child with this condition.
Most hospitals have programs where you can learn about these methods.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

      * Your child seems to have a very small jaw
      * Your child has trouble feeding properly

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam and may ask questions about the problem.
Some of these may include:

      * When did you first notice that the jaw was small?
      * How severe is it?
      * Does the child have trouble eating?
      * What other symptoms are present? 

The physical exam will include a thorough check of the mouth.

The following tests may be performed:

      * Dental x-rays
      * Skull x-rays

Depending on the symptoms, a child may need to be tested for an inherited
condition that may be the source of the problem. The child may need surgery or
devices to correct tooth position.

## Images

      * ![The face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1095t.jpg)The face

## References

Enlow E, Greenberg JM. Clinical manifestations of diseases in the newborn. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, Blum NJ, Shah SS, et al. eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 119.

Hartsfield JK, Cameron AC. Acquired and developmental disturbances of the
teeth and associated oral structures. In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's
Dentistry of the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2016:chap 3.

Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM. Imaging of
the face and neck. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA,
Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 23.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![Jaw Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JawInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Jaw
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

