Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000019.htm    
                                Description: A broken jaw is a break (fracture) in the jaw bone. A dislocated jaw means the lower part of the jaw has moved out of its normal position at one or both joints where the jaw bone connects to the skull    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Broken or dislocated jaw

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000019.htm

# Broken or dislocated jaw

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A broken jaw is a break (fracture) in the jaw bone. A dislocated jaw means the
lower part of the jaw has moved out of its normal position at one or both
joints where the jaw bone connects to the skull (temporomandibular joints).

## Considerations

A broken or dislocated jaw usually heals well after treatment. ButÂ the jaw
may become dislocated again in the future.

Complications may include:

      * Airway blockage
      * Bleeding
      * Breathing blood or food into the lungs
      * Difficulty eating (temporary)
      * Difficulty talking (temporary)
      * Infection of the jaw or face
      * Jaw joint (TMJ) pain and other problems
      * Numbness of part of the jaw or face  

      * Problems aligning the teeth
      * Swelling

## Causes

The most common cause of a broken or dislocated jaw is injury to the face.
This may be due to:

      * Assault
      * Industrial accident
      * Motor vehicle accident
      * Recreational or sports injury
      * Trips and falls
      * After a dental or medical procedure

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a broken jaw include:

      * Pain in the face or jaw, located in front of the ear or on the affected side,Â that gets worse with movement
      * Bruising and swelling of the face, bleeding from the mouth
      * Difficulty chewing  

      * Jaw stiffness, difficulty opening the mouth widely, or problem closing the mouth
      * Jaw moving to one side when opening
      * Jaw tenderness or pain, worse with biting or chewing
      * Loose or damaged teeth
      * Lump or abnormal appearance of the cheek or jaw
      * Numbness of the face (particularly the lower lip)
      * Ear pain

Symptoms of a dislocated jaw include:

      * Pain in the face or jaw, located in front of the ear or on the affected side,Â that gets worse with movement
      * Bite that feels "off" or crooked
      * Problems talking
      * Inability to close the mouth
      * Drooling because of inability to close the mouth
      * Locked jaw or jaw that protrudes forward
      * Teeth that do not line up properly

## First Aid

A person with a broken or dislocated jaw needs medical attention right away.
This is because they may have breathing problems or bleeding. Call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or a local hospital for further advice.

Hold the jaw gently in place with your hands on the way to the emergency room.
You can also wrap a bandage under the jaw and over the top of the head. The
bandage should be easy to removeÂ in case you need to vomit.

At the hospital, if you have breathing problems, heavy bleeding occurs, or
severe swelling of your face, a tube may be placed into your airways to help
you breathe.

FRACTURED JAW

Treatment for a fractured jaw depends on how badly the bone is broken. If you
have a minor fracture, it can heal on its own. You may only need pain
medicines. You will probably have to eat soft foods or stay on aÂ liquid diet
for a while.

Surgery is often needed for moderate to severe fractures. The jaw may be wired
to the teeth of the opposite jaw to keep the jaw stable while it heals. Jaw
wires are usually left in place for 6Â toÂ 8 weeks. Small rubber bands
(elastics) are used to hold the teeth together. After a few weeks, some of the
elastics are removed to allow motion and reduce joint stiffness.

If the jaw is wired, you can only drink liquids or eat very soft foods. Have
blunt scissors readily available to cut the elastics in the event of vomiting
or choking. If the wires must be cut, call your health care provider right
away so that the wires can be replaced.

DISLOCATED JAW

If your jaw is dislocated, aÂ doctor may be able to place it back into the
correct position usingÂ the thumbs. Numbing medicines (anesthetics) and muscle
relaxants may be needed to relax the jaw muscles.

Afterward, your jaw may need to be stabilized. This usually involves bandaging
the jaw to keep the mouth from opening widely. In some cases, surgery is
needed to do this, particularly if repeated jaw dislocations occur.

After dislocating your jaw, you should not open your mouth widely for at least
6 weeks. Support your jaw with one or both hands when yawning and sneezing.

## DO NOT

DoÂ not try to correct the position of the jaw. A doctor should do this.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A broken or dislocated jaw requiresÂ prompt medical attention. Emergency
symptoms include difficulty breathing or heavy bleeding.

## Prevention

During work, sports, and recreation activities, using safety equipment, such
as a helmet when playing football, or using mouth guards can prevent or
minimize some injuries to the face or jaw.

## Alternative Names

Dislocated jaw; Fractured jaw; Fractured mandible; Broken jaw; TMJ
dislocation; Mandibular dislocation

## Images

      * ![Mandibular fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9848t.jpg)Mandibular fracture

## References

Kellman RM. Maxillofacial trauma. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 23.

Mayersak RJ. Facial trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 35.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dislocations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dislocations_thumb.jpg)Dislocations
_Read more_

![Jaw Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JawInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Jaw
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

