Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001933.htm    
                                Description: This article describes health care providers involved in primary care, nursing care, and specialty care.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Types of health care providers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001933.htm

# Types of health care providers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes health care providers involved in primary care, nursing
care, and specialty care.

## Information

PRIMARY CARE

A primary care provider (PCP) is a person you may see first for checkups and
health problems. PCPs can help manage your overall health. If you have a
health care plan, find out what type of practitioner can serve as your PCP.

      * The term "generalist" often refers to medical doctors (MDs) and doctors of osteopathic medicine (DOs) who specialize in internal medicine, family practice, or pediatrics.
      * Obstetrician/Gynecologists (OB/GYNs) are doctors who specialize in obstetrics and gynecology, including women's health care, wellness, and prenatal care. Many women use an OB/GYN as their primary care provider.
      * Nurse practitioners (NPs) are nurses with graduate training. They can serve as a primary care provider in family medicine (FNP), pediatrics (PNP), adult care (ANP), or geriatrics (GNP). Others are trained to address women's health care (common concerns and routine screenings) and family planning. NPs can prescribe medicines.
      * A physician assistant (PA) can provide a wide range of services in collaboration with a Doctor of Medicine (MD) or a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO). 

NURSING CARE

      * Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) are state-licensed caregivers who have been trained to care for the sick.
      * Registered nurses (RNs) have graduated from a nursing program, have passed a state board examination, and are licensed by the state.
      * Advanced practice nurses have education and experience beyond the basic training and licensing required of all RNs.

Advanced practice nurses include nurse practitioners (NPs) and the following:

      * Clinical nurse specialists (CNSs) have training in a field such as cardiac, psychiatric, or community health.
      * Certified nurse midwives (CNMs) have training in women's health care needs, including prenatal care, labor and delivery, and the care of a woman who has given birth.
      * Certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs) have training in the field of anesthesia. Anesthesia is the process of putting a person into a painless sleep, and keeping the person's body working so surgeries or special tests can be done. 

DRUG THERAPY

Licensed pharmacists have graduate training from a college of pharmacy.

Your pharmacist prepares and processes drug prescriptions that were written by
your primary or specialty care provider. Pharmacists provide information to
people about medicines. They also consult with providers about dosages,
interactions, and side effects of medicines.

Your pharmacist may also follow your progress to check that you are using your
medicine safely and effectively.

Pharmacists also can evaluate your health and prescribe medicines.

SPECIALTY CARE

Your primary care provider may refer you to professionals in various
specialties when necessary, such as:

      * Allergy and asthma
      * Anesthesiology -- general anesthesia or spinal block for surgeries and some forms of pain control
      * Cardiology -- heart disorders
      * Dermatology -- skin disorders
      * Endocrinology -- hormonal and metabolic disorders, including diabetes
      * Gastroenterology -- digestive system disorders
      * General surgery -- common surgeries involving any part of the body
      * Hematology -- blood disorders
      * Immunology -- disorders of the immune system
      * Infectious disease -- infections affecting the tissues of any part of the body
      * Nephrology -- kidney disorders
      * Neurology -- nervous system disorders
      * Obstetrics/gynecology -- pregnancy and women's reproductive disorders
      * Oncology -- cancer treatment
      * Ophthalmology -- eye disorders and surgery
      * Orthopedics -- bone and connective tissue disorders
      * Otorhinolaryngology -- ear, nose, and throat (ENT) disorders
      * Physical therapy and rehabilitative medicine -- for disorders such as low back injury, spinal cord injuries, and stroke
      * Psychiatry -- emotional or mental disorders
      * Pulmonary (lung) -- respiratory tract disorders
      * Radiology -- x-rays and related procedures (such as ultrasound, CT, and MRI)
      * Rheumatology -- pain and other symptoms related to joints and other parts of the musculoskeletal system
      * Urology -- disorders of the male reproductive system and urinary tract and the female urinary tract

Nurse practitioners and physician assistants may also provide care in
association with most types of specialists.

## Alternative Names

Physicians; Nurses; Health care providers; Doctors; Pharmacists

## Images

      * ![Types of health care providers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9364t.jpg)Types of health care providers

## References

Association of American Medical Colleges. Careers in medicine.
www.aamc.org/cim/specialty/exploreoptions/list/. Accessed July 25, 2018.

American Academy of PAs. What is a PA? www.aapa.org/what-is-a-pa/. Accessed
July 25, 2018.

American Association of Nurse Practitioners. What's a nurse practitioner (NP)?
www.aanp.org/all-about-nps/what-is-an-np. Accessed July 25, 2018.

American Pharmacists Association. About APhA. www.pharmacist.com/about-apha.
Accessed July 25, 2018.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
01/24/2019.

![Health
Occupations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthOccupations_thumb.jpg)Health
Occupations _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

