Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000839.htm    
                                Description: Dermatomyositis is a muscle disease that involves inflammation and a skin rash. Polymyositis is a similar inflammatory condition, that also involves muscle weakness, swelling, tenderness, and tissue damage    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dermatomyositis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000839.htm

# Dermatomyositis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dermatomyositis is a muscle disease that involves inflammation and a skin
rash. Polymyositis is a similar inflammatory condition, that also involves
muscle weakness, swelling, tenderness, and tissue damage but no skin rash.
Both are part of a larger group of disease called inflammatory myopathy.

## Causes

The cause of dermatomyositis is unknown. Experts think it may be due to a
viral infection of the muscles or a problem with the body's immune system. It
may also occur in people who have cancer in the abdomen, lung, or other parts
of the body.

Anyone can develop this condition. It most often occurs in children age 5 to
15 and adults age 40 to 60. It affects women more often than men.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Muscle weakness, stiffness, or soreness
      * Problems swallowing
      * Purple color to the upper eyelids
      * Purple-red skin rash
      * Shortness of breath

The muscle weakness may come on suddenly or develop slowly over weeks or
months. You may have trouble raising your arms over your head, getting up from
a sitting position, and climbing stairs.

The rash may appear on your face, knuckles, neck, shoulders, upper chest, and
back.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. Tests may include:

      * Bloods test to check levels of muscle enzymes called creatine phosphokinase and aldolase
      * Blood tests for autoimmune diseases
      * ECG
      * Electromyography (EMG)
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      * Muscle biopsy
      * Skin biopsy
      * Other screening tests for cancer 
      * Chest x-ray and CT scan of the chest
      * Lung function tests
      * Swallowing study
      * Myositis specific and associated autoantibodies

## Treatment

The main treatment is the use of corticosteroid medicines. The dose of
medicine is slowly tapered off as muscle strength improves. This takes about 4
to 6 weeks. You may stay on a low dose of a corticosteroid medicine after
that.

Medicines to suppress the immune system may be used to replace the
corticosteroids. These drugs may include azathioprine, methotrexate or
mycophenolate.

Treatments that may be tried when disease that remains active in spite of
these medicines are:

      * Intravenous gamma globulin
      * Biologic drugs

When your muscles get stronger, your provider may tell you to slowly cut back
on your doses. Many people with this condition must take a medicine called
prednisone for the rest of their lives.

If a cancer is causing the condition, the muscle weakness and rash may get
better when the tumor is removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms may go away completely in some people, such as children.

The condition may be fatal in adults due to:

      * Severe muscle weakness
      * Malnutrition
      * Pneumonia
      * Lung failure

The major causes of death with this condition are cancer and lung disease.

People with lung disease with the anti-MDA-5 antibody have a poor prognosis in
spite of current treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Lung disease
      * Acute renal failure
      * Cancer (malignancy)
      * Inflammation of the heart
      * Joint pain

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have muscle weakness or other symptoms of this
condition.

## Images

      * ![Dermatomyositis - Gottron papule](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1522t.jpg)Dermatomyositis - Gottron papule
      * ![Dermatomyositis - Gottron's papules on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1866t.jpg)Dermatomyositis - Gottron's papules on the hand
      * ![Dermatomyositis - heliotrope eyelids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2402t.jpg)Dermatomyositis - heliotrope eyelids
      * ![Dermatomyositis on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2403t.jpg)Dermatomyositis on the legs
      * ![Dermatomyositis - Gottron papule](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2404t.jpg)Dermatomyositis - Gottron papule
      * ![Paronychia - candidial](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2527t.jpg)Paronychia - candidial
      * ![Dermatomyositis - heliotrope rash on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2898t.jpg)Dermatomyositis - heliotrope rash on the face

## References

Aggarwal R, Rider LG, Ruperto N, et al. 2016 American College of
Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism Criteria for Minimal,
Moderate, and Major Clinical Response in Adult Dermatomyositis and
Polymyositis: An International Myositis Assessment and Clinical Studies
Group/Paediatric Rheumatology International Trials Organisation Collaborative
Initiative. _Arthritis Rheumatol_. 2017;69(5):898-910. PMID: 28382787
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28382787.

Dalakas MC. Inflammatory muscle diseases. _N Engl J Med_. 2015;373(4):393-394.
PMID: 26200989 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26200989.

Nagaraju K, Gladue HS, Lundberg IE. Inflammatory diseases of muscle and other
myopathies. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 85.

National Organization for Rare Disorders website. Dermatomyositis.
rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/dermatomyositis/. Accessed April 1, 2019.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Myositis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Myositis_thumb.jpg)Myositis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

