Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000428.htm    
                                Description: Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are rare inflammatory diseases. (The condition is called dermatomyositis when it involves the skin.) These diseases lead to muscle weakness, swelling, tenderness, and tissue    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polymyositis - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000428.htm

# Polymyositis - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are rare inflammatory diseases. (The
condition is called dermatomyositis when it involves the skin.) These diseases
lead to muscle weakness, swelling, tenderness, and tissue damage. They are
part of a larger group of diseases called myopathies.

## Causes

Polymyositis affects the skeletal muscles. It is also known as idiopathic
inflammatory myopathy. The exact cause is unknown, but it may be related to an
autoimmune reaction or infection.

Polymyositis can affect people at any age. It is most common in adults between
ages 50 and 60, and in older children. It affects women twice as often as men.
It is more common in African Americans than white people.

## Symptoms

Polymyositis is a systemic disease. This means it affects the whole body.
Muscle weakness and tenderness can be signs of polymyositis. A rash is a sign
of a related condition, dermatomyositis.

Common symptoms include:

      * Muscle weakness in the shoulders and hips. This can make it hard to raise the arms over the head, get up from a sitting position, or climb stairs.
      * Difficulty swallowing. 
      * Muscle pain. 
      * Problems with the voice (caused by weak throat muscles).
      * Shortness of breath. 

You may also have:

      * Fatigue
      * Fever
      * Joint pain
      * Loss of appetite
      * Morning stiffness
      * Weight loss 
      * Skin rash on the back of the fingers, on the eyelids, or on the face

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

      * Autoimmune antibodies and inflammation tests
      * CPK
      * Serum aldolase
      * Electromyography
      * MRI of affected muscles
      * Muscle biopsy
      * Myoglobin in the urine
      * ECG
      * Chest x-ray and CT scan of the chest
      * Pulmonary function tests
      * Esophageal swallowing study
      * Myositis specific and associated autoantibodies

People with this condition also must be watched carefully for signs of cancer.

## Treatment

The main treatment is the use of corticosteroid medicines. The dose of
medicine is slowly tapered off as muscle strength improves. This takes about 4
to 6 weeks. You will stay on a low dose of a corticosteroid medicine after
that.

Medicines to suppress the immune system may be used to replace the
corticosteroids. These drugs may include azathioprine, methotrexate or
mycophenolate.

For disease that remains active in spite of corticosteroids, intravenous gamma
globulin has been tried with mixed results. Biologic drugs also may be used.
Rituximab appears to be the most promising. It is important to rule out other
conditions in people who do not respond to treatment. A repeat muscle biopsy
may be needed to make this diagnosis.

If the condition is associated with a tumor, it may improve if the tumor is
removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Response to treatment varies, based on the complications. As many as 1 in 5
people may die within 5 years of developing the condition.

Many people, especially children, recover from the illness and do not need
ongoing treatment. For most adults, however, immunosuppressant drugs are
needed to control the disease.

The outlook for people with lung disease with the anti-MDA-5 antibody is poor
despite current treatment.

In adults, death may result from:

      * Malnutrition
      * Pneumonia
      * Respiratory failure
      * Severe, long-term muscle weakness 

The major causes of death are cancer and lung disease.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Calcium deposits in the affected muscles, especially in children with the disease
      * Cancer
      * Heart disease, lung disease, or abdominal complications 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of this disorder. Seek
emergency treatment if you have shortness of breath and difficulty swallowing.

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles

## References

Aggarwal R, Rider LG, Ruperto N, et al. 2016 American College of
Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism Criteria for Minimal,
Moderate, and Major Clinical Response in Adult Dermatomyositis and
Polymyositis: An International Myositis Assessment and Clinical Studies
Group/Paediatric Rheumatology International Trials Organisation Collaborative
Initiative. _Arthritis Rheumatol_. 2017;69(5):898-910. PMID: 28382787
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28382787.

Dalakas MC. Inflammatory muscle diseases. _N Engl J Med_. 2015;373(4):393-394.
PMID: 26200989 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26200989.

Greenberg SA. Inflammatory myopathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 269.

Nagaraju K, Gladue HS, Lundberg IE. Inflammatory diseases of muscle and other
myopathies. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 85.

Yoshida N, Okamoto M, Kaieda S, et al. Association of anti-aminoacyl-transfer
RNA synthetase antibody and anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5
antibody with the therapeutic response of polymyositis/dermatomyositis-
associated interstitial lung disease. _Respir Investig_. 2017;55(1):24-32.
PMID: 28012490 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28012490.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Myositis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Myositis_thumb.jpg)Myositis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

