Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002113.htm    
                                Description: Calcifications are tiny deposits of calcium in your breast tissue. They are often seen on a mammogram.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mammogram - calcifications

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002113.htm

# Mammogram - calcifications

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Calcifications are tiny deposits of calcium in your breast tissue. They are
often seen on a mammogram.

## Information

The calcium you eat or take in as medicine does not cause calcifications in
the breast.

Most calcifications are not a sign of cancer. Causes may include:

      * Calcium deposits in the arteries inside your breasts
      * History of breast infection
      * Noncancerous (benign) breast lumps or cysts
      * Past injury to the breast tissue

Large, rounded calcifications (macrocalcifications) are common in women over
age 50. They look like small white dots on the mammogram. They are most likely
not related to cancer. You will rarely need more testing.

Microcalcifications are tiny calcium specks seen on a mammogram. Most of the
time, they are not cancer. However, these areas may need to be checked more
closely if they have a certain appearance on the mammogram.

WHEN IS FURTHER TESTING NEEDED?

When microcalcifications are present on a mammogram, the doctor (a
radiologist) may ask for a larger view so the areas can be examined more
closely.

Calcifications that do not appear to be a problem are called benign. No
specific follow-up is needed. But, your health care provider may recommend
that you get a mammogram each year.

In some cases, calcifications that are slightly abnormal but do not look like
a problem (such as cancer) are also called benign. Most women will need to
have a follow-up mammogram in 6 months.

Calcifications that are irregular in size or shape or are tightly clustered
together, are called suspicious calcifications. Your provider will recommend a
stereotactic core biopsy. This is a needle biopsy that uses a type of
mammogram machine to help find the calcifications. The purpose of the biopsy
is to find out if the calcifications are benign (not cancer) or malignant
(cancer).

Most women who have suspicious calcifications do not have cancer.

## Alternative Names

Microcalcifications or macrocalcifications; Breast cancer - calcifications;
Mammography - calcifications

## Images

      * ![Mammogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23188t.jpg)Mammogram

## References

Ikeda DM, Miyake KK. Mammographic analysis of breast calcifications. In: Ikeda
DM, Miyake KK, eds. _Breast Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Siu AL;Â Services Task Force. Screening for breast cancer: US Preventive
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2016;164(4):279-296. PMID: 26757170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26757170.

## Review Date 1/21/2020

Updated by: Neil Grossman, MD, MetroWest Radiology Associates, Framingham, MA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mammography](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mammography_thumb.jpg)Mammography
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

