Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003193.htm    
                                Description: Muscle cramps are when a muscle gets tight (contracts) without you trying to tighten it, and it does not relax. Cramps may involve all or part of one or more muscles.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Muscle cramps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003193.htm

# Muscle cramps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Muscle cramps are when a muscle gets tight (contracts) without you trying to
tighten it, and it does not relax. Cramps may involve all or part of one or
more muscles.

The most commonly involved muscle groups are:

      * Back of the lower leg/calf
      * Back of the thigh (hamstrings)
      * Front of the thigh (quadriceps) 

Cramps in the feet, hands, arms, abdomen, and along the rib cage are also very
common.

Muscle cramps are common and may be stopped by stretching the muscle. The
cramping muscle may feel hard or bulging.

## Considerations

Muscle cramps are different than muscle twitches, which are covered in a
separate article.

## Causes

Muscle cramps are common and often occur when a muscle is overused or injured.
Working out when you have not had enough fluids (dehydration) or when you have
low levels of minerals such as potassium or calcium can also make you more
likely to have a muscle spasm.

Muscle cramps can occur while you play tennis or golf, bowl, swim, or do any
other exercise.

They can also be triggered by:

      * Alcoholism
      * Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid)
      * Kidney failure
      * Medicines
      * Menstruation
      * Pregnancy 

## Home Care

If you have a muscle cramp, stop your activity and try stretching and
massaging the muscle.

Heat will relax the muscle when the spasm begins, but ice may be helpful when
the pain has improved.

If the muscle is still sore, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines can help
with pain. If the muscle cramps are severe, your health care provider can
prescribe other medicines.

The most common cause of muscle cramps during sports activity is not getting
enough fluids. Often, drinking water will ease the cramping. However, water
alone does not always help. Salt tablets or sports drinks, which also
replenish lost minerals, can be helpful.

Other tips for relieving muscle cramps:

      * Change your workouts so that you are exercising within your ability.
      * Drink plenty of fluids while exercising and increase your potassium intake (orange juice and bananas are great sources of potassium).
      * Stretch to improve flexibility. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your muscle cramps:

      * Are severe
      * Do not go away with simple stretching
      * Keep coming back
      * Last a long time 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask questions about your symptoms and
medical history, such as:

      * When did the spasms first begin?
      * How long do they last?
      * How often do you experience muscle spasms?
      * What muscles are affected?
      * Is the cramp always in the same location?
      * Are you pregnant?
      * Have you been vomiting, had diarrhea, excessive sweating, excessive urine volume, or any other possible cause of dehydration?
      * What medicines do you take?
      * Have you been exercising heavily?
      * Have you been drinking alcohol heavily? 

Blood tests may be done to check for the following:

      * Calcium, potassium, or magnesium metabolism
      * Kidney function
      * Thyroid function 

Pain medicines may be prescribed.

## Alternative Names

Cramps - muscle

## Images

      * ![Chest stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19483t.jpg)Chest stretch
      * ![Groin stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19484t.jpg)Groin stretch
      * ![Hamstring stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19485t.jpg)Hamstring stretch
      * ![Hip stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19486t.jpg)Hip stretch
      * ![Thigh stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19487t.jpg)Thigh stretch
      * ![Triceps stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19488t.jpg)Triceps stretch

## References

Grove AJ, GÃ³mez J. Environmental illness. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds _.
DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 25.

Wang LH, Lopate G, Pestronk A. Muscle pain and cramps. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 28.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle Cramps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleCramps_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Cramps _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

