Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003830.htm    
                                Description: An MIBG scintiscan is a type of imaging test. It uses a radioactive substance (called a tracer). A scanner finds or confirms the presence of pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma. These are types of tumors    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

MIBG scintiscan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003830.htm

# MIBG scintiscan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An MIBG scintiscan is a type of imaging test. It uses a radioactive substance
(called a tracer). A scanner finds or confirms the presence of
pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma. These are types of tumors that affect
nerve tissue.

## How the Test is Performed

A radioisotope (MIBG, iodine-131-meta-iodobenzylguanidine, or iodine-123-meta-
iodobenzylguanidine) is injected into a vein. This compound attaches to
specific tumor cells.

You will have the scan later that day or the next day. For this part of the
test, you lie on a table under the arm of the scanner. Your abdomen is
scanned. You may need to return for repeated scans for 1 to 3 days. Each scan
takes 1 to 2 hours.

Before or during the test, you may be given an iodine mixture. This prevents
your thyroid gland from absorbing too much of the radioisotope.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will need to sign an informed consent form. You will be asked to wear a
hospital gown or loose-fitting clothes. You will need to remove jewelry or
metal objects before each scan. Many drugs interfere with the test. Ask your
health care provider which of your regular medicines you may need to stop
taking before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp needle prick when the material is injected. The table
may be cold or hard. You must lie still during the scan.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to help diagnose pheochromocytoma. It is done when an
abdominal CT scan does not give a definite answer. It is also used to help
diagnose neuroblastoma and can be used for carcinoid tumors.

## Normal Results

There are no signs of a tumor.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

      * Pheochromocytoma
      * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II
      * Carcinoid tumor
      * Neuroblastoma

## Risks

There is some exposure to radiation from the radioisotope. The radiation from
this radioisotope is higher than from many others. You may need to take extra
precautions for a few days after the test. Your provider will tell you what
actions to take.

Before or during the test, you may be given an iodine solution. This will keep
your thyroid gland from absorbing too much iodine. Usually people take
potassium iodide for 1 day prior and 6 days after. This blocks the thyroid
from taking up the MIBG.

This test should NOT be done on pregnant women. The radiation can pose danger
to the unborn baby.

## Alternative Names

Adrenal medullary imaging; Meta-iodobenzylguanidine scintiscan;
Pheochromocytoma - MIBG; Neuroblastoma - MIBG; Carcinoid MIBG

## Images

      * ![MBIG injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9646t.jpg)MIBG injection

## References

Bleeker G, Tytgat GA, Adam JA, et al. 123I-MIBG scintigraphy and 18F-FDG-PET
imaging for diagnosing neuroblastoma. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_.
2015;(9):CDC009263. PMID: 26417712 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26417712.

Hutton BF, Segerman D, Miles KA. Radionuclide and hybrid imaging. In: Adam A,
Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's
Diagnostic Radiology_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 6.

Patel D, Nilubol N, Kebebew E. The management of pheochromocytoma. In: Cameron
JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:760-767.

Young WF. Adrenal medulla, catecholamines, and pheochromocytoma. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 228.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neuroblastoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neuroblastoma_thumb.jpg)Neuroblastoma
_Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![Pheochromocytoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pheochromocytoma_thumb.jpg)Pheochromocytoma
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

