Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003823.htm    
                                Description: A radionuclide cisternogram is a nuclear scan test. It is used to diagnose problems with the flow of spinal fluid.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radionuclide cisternogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003823.htm

# Radionuclide cisternogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A radionuclide cisternogram is a nuclear scan test. It is used to diagnose
problems with the flow of spinal fluid.

## How the Test is Performed

A spinal tapÂ (lumbar puncture) is done first. Small amounts of radioactive
material, called a radioisotope, are injected into the fluid within the
spine.Â The needle is removed immediately after the injection.

You will then be scanned 4 to 6 hours after getting the injection. A special
camera takes images that show how the radioactive materials travel with the
cerebrospinal fluid through the spine. The images also show if the fluid leaks
outside the spine or brain.

You will be scanned again 24 hours after injection. You may need additional
scans possibly at 48 and 72 hours after injection.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, you do not need to prepare for this test. Your health care
provider may give you a medicine to calm your nerves if you are very anxious.
You will sign a consent form before the test.

You will wear a hospital gown during the scan so the doctors have access to
your spine. You will also need to remove jewelry or metallic objects before
the scan.

## How the Test will Feel

Numbing medicine will be put on your lower back before the lumbar puncture.
However, many people find lumbar puncture somewhat uncomfortable. This is
often due to the pressure on the spine when the needle is inserted.

The scan is painless, although the table may be cold or hard. No discomfort is
produced by the radioisotope or the scanner.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed to detect problems with flow of spinal fluid and spinal
fluid leaks. In some cases, there may be a concern theÂ cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) fluid is leaking after a trauma to the head or a surgery in the head.
This test will be done to diagnose the leak.

## Normal Results

A normal value indicates normal circulation of CSF through all parts of the
brain and spinal cord.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result indicates disorders of CSF circulation. These disorders may
include:

      * Hydrocephalus or dilated spaces in your brain due to an obstruction
      * CSF leak
      * Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH)
      * Whether or not a CSF shunt is open or blocked 

## Risks

Risks associated with a lumbar puncture include pain at the injection site,
bleeding, and infection. There is also a very rare chance of nerve damage.

The amount of radiation used during the nuclear scan is very small. Almost all
of the radiation is gone within a few days. There are no known casesÂ of the
radioisotopeÂ causing harm toÂ the person getting the scan. However, as with
any radiation exposure, caution is advised if you are pregnant or
breastfeeding.

Very rarely, a person may have an allergic reaction to the radioisotope used
during the scan. This may include a serious anaphylactic reaction.

## Considerations

You should lie flat after the lumbar puncture. This can help prevent headache
from the lumbar puncture. No other special care is necessary.

## Alternative Names

CSF flow scan; Cisternogram

## Images

      * ![Lumbar puncture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9587t.jpg)Lumbar puncture

## References

Bartleson JD, Black DF, Swanson JW. Cranial and facial pain. In: Daroff RB,
Fenichel GM, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 7/2/2017

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus_thumb.jpg)Hydrocephalus
_Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

