Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003450.htm    
                                Description: A gallium scan is a test to look for swelling (inflammation), infection, or cancer in the body. It uses a radioactive material called gallium and is a type of nuclear medicine exam.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gallium scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003450.htm

# Gallium scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A gallium scan is a test to look for swelling (inflammation), infection, or
cancer in the body. It uses a radioactive material called gallium and is a
type of nuclear medicine exam.

A related test is gallium scan of the lung.

## How the Test is Performed

You will get gallium injected into your vein. Gallium is a radioactive
material. The gallium travels through the bloodstream and collects in the
bones and certain organs.

Your health care provider will tell you to return at a later time to be
scanned. The scan will take place 6 to 48 hours after the gallium is injected.
The test time depends on what condition your doctor is looking for. In some
cases, people are scanned more than once.

You will lie on your back on the scanner table. A special camera detects where
the gallium has gathered in the body.

You must lie still during the scan, which takes 30 to 60 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Stool in the bowel can interfere with the test. You may need to take a
laxative the night before you have the test. Or, you may get an enema 1 to 2
hours before the test. You may eat and drink liquids normally.

You will need to sign a consent form. You will need to take off all jewelry
and metal objects before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp prick when you get the injection. The site may be sore
for a few minutes.

The hardest part of the scan is holding still. The scan itself is painless.
The technician can help make you comfortable before the scan begins.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is rarely performed. It may be done to look for the cause of a fever
that has lasted a few weeks without an explanation.

## Normal Results

Gallium normally collects in bones, the liver, spleen, the large bowel, and
breast tissue.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Gallium detected outside normal areas can be a sign of:

      * Infection
      * Inflammation
      * Tumors, including Hodgkin disease or non-Hodgkin lymphoma

The test may be done to look for lung conditions such as:

      * Primary pulmonary hypertension
      * Pulmonary embolus
      * Respiratory infections, most often _Pneumocystitis jirovecii_ pneumonia 
      * Sarcoidosis
      * Scleroderma of the lung
      * Tumors in the lung 

## Risks

There is a small risk for radiation exposure. This risk is less than that with
x-rays or CT scans. Pregnant or nursing women and young children should avoid
radiation exposure if at all possible.

## Considerations

Not all cancers show up on a gallium scan. Areas of inflammation, such as
recent surgical scars, may show up on the scan. However, they do not
necessarily indicate an infection.

## Alternative Names

Liver gallium scan; Bony gallium scan

## Images

      * ![Gallium injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9595t.jpg)Gallium injection

## References

Narayanan S, Abdalla WAK, Tadros S. Fundamentals of pediatric radiology. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap
25.

Hutton BF, Segerman D, Miles KA. Radionuclide and hybrid imaging. In: Adam A,
Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM. eds. _Grainger & Allison's
Diagnostic Radiology_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 6.

Seabold JE, Palestro CJ, Brown ML, et al. Society of nuclear medicine
procedure guideline for gallium scintigraphy in inflammation. _The Society of
Nuclear Medicine_. 2004. www.old.health.gov.il/download/forms/pg_ch17.pdf.
Accessed November 26, 2019.

Vinnicombe SJ, Avril N, Reznek RH. Reticuloendothelial disorders: lymphoma.
In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM. eds. _Grainger &
Allison's Diagnostic Radiology_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 70.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 11-26-19.
Editorial update on 12-27-19.

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

