Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003822.htm    
                                Description: Nuclear ventriculography is a test that uses radioactive materials called tracers to show the heart chambers. The procedure is noninvasive. The instruments DO NOT directly touch the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nuclear ventriculography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003822.htm

# Nuclear ventriculography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nuclear ventriculography is a test that uses radioactive materials called
tracers to show the heart chambers. The procedure is noninvasive. The
instruments DO NOT directly touch the heart.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done while you are resting.

The health care provider will inject a radioactive material called technetium
into your vein. This substance attaches to red blood cells and passes through
the heart.

The red blood cells inside the heart that carry the material form an image
that a special camera can pick up. These scanners trace the substance as it
moves through the heart area. The camera is timed with an electrocardiogram. A
computer then processes the images to make it appear as if the heart is
moving.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be told not to eat or drink for several hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a brief sting or pinch when the IV is inserted into your vein.
Most often, a vein in the arm is used. You may have trouble staying still
during the test.

![MUGA test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9675.jpg)

## Why the Test is Performed

The test will show how well the blood is pumping through different parts of
the heart.

## Normal Results

Normal results show that the heart squeezing function is normal. The test can
check the overall squeezing strength of the heart (ejection fraction). A
normal value is above 50% to 55%.

The test also can check the motion of different parts of the heart. If one
part of the heart is moving poorly while the others move well, it may mean
that there has been damage to that part of the heart.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Blockages in the coronary arteries (coronary artery disease) 
      * Heart valve disease
      * Other cardiac disorders that weaken the heart (reduced pumping function)
      * Past heart attack (myocardial infarction)

The test may also be performed for:

      * Dilated cardiomyopathy
      * Heart failure
      * Idiopathic cardiomyopathy
      * Peripartum cardiomyopathy
      * Ischemic cardiomyopathy
      * Testing whether a medicine has affected heart function 

## Risks

Nuclear imaging tests carry a very low risk. Exposure to the radioisotope
delivers a small amount of radiation. This amount is safe for people who DO
NOT have nuclear imaging tests often.

## Alternative Names

Cardiac blood pooling imaging; Heart scan - nuclear; Radionuclide
ventriculography (RNV); Multiple gate acquisition scan (MUGA); Nuclear
cardiology; Cardiomyopathy - nuclear ventriculography

## Images

      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![MUGA test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9675t.jpg)MUGA test

## References

Bogaert J. Ischaemic heart disease. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 22.

Kramer CM, Beller GA, Hagspiel KD. Noninvasive cardiac imaging. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 56.

Udelson JE, Dilsizian V, Bonow RO. Nuclear cardiology. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

