Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007561.htm    
                                Description: The nuchal translucency test measures the nuchal fold thickness. This is an area of tissue at the back of an unborn baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nuchal translucency test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007561.htm

# Nuchal translucency test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The nuchal translucency test measures the nuchal fold thickness. This is an
area of tissue at the back of an unborn baby's neck. Measuring this thickness
helps assess the risk forÂ Down syndrome and other genetic problems in the
baby.

## How the Test is Performed

Your health care provider uses abdominal ultrasound (not vaginal) to measure
the nuchal fold. All unborn babies have some fluid at the back of their neck.
In a baby with Down syndrome or other genetic disorders, there is more fluid
than normal. This makes the space look thicker.

A blood test of the mother is also done. Together, these two tests will tell
if the baby could have Down syndrome or another genetic disorder.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Having a full bladder will give the best ultrasound picture. You may be asked
to drink 2 to 3 glasses of liquid an hour before the test. DO NOT urinate
before your ultrasound.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have some discomfort from pressure on your bladder during the
ultrasound. The gel used during the test may feel slightly cold and wet. You
will not feel the ultrasound waves.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may advise this test to screen your baby for Down syndrome. Many
pregnant women decide to have this test.

Nuchal translucency is usually done between the 11th and 14th week of
pregnancy. It can be done earlier in pregnancy than amniocentesis. This is
another test that checks for birth defects.

## Normal Results

A normal amount of fluid in the back of the neck during ultrasound means it is
very unlikely your baby has Down syndrome or another genetic disorder.

Nuchal translucency measurement increases with gestational age. This is the
period between conception and birth. The higher the measurement compared to
babies the same gestational age, the higher the risk is for certain genetic
disorders.

The measurements below are considered low risk for genetic disorders:

      * At 11 weeks --Â up to 2 mm
      * At 13 weeks, 6 daysÂ -- up to 2.8 mm 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

More fluid than normal in the back of the neck means there is a higher risk
for Down syndrome, trisomy 18, trisomy 13, Turner syndrome, or congenital
heart disease. But it does not tell for certain that the baby has Down
syndrome or another genetic disorder.

If the result is abnormal, other tests can be done. Most of the time, the
other test done is amniocentesis.

## Risks

There are no known risks from ultrasound.

## Alternative Names

Nuchal translucency screening; NT; Nuchal fold test; Nuchal fold scan;
Prenatal genetic screening; Down syndrome - nuchal translucency

## References

Chaveeva P, Agathokleous M, Nicolaides KH. Fetal aneuploidies. In: Coady AM,
Bower S, eds. _Twining's Textbook of Fetal Abnormalities_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

Walsh JM, D'Alton ME. Nuchal translucency. In: Copel JA, D'Alton ME, Feltovich
H, et al, eds. _Obstetric Imaging: Fetal Diagnosis and Care_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Down Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DownSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Down
Syndrome _Read more_

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

