Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007340.htm    
                                Description: Fetal echocardiography is a test that uses sound waves (ultrasound) to evaluate the baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fetal echocardiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007340.htm

# Fetal echocardiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fetal echocardiography is a test that uses sound waves (ultrasound) to
evaluate the baby's heart for problems before birth.

## How the Test is Performed

Fetal echocardiography is a test that is done while the baby is still in the
womb. It is most often done during the second trimester of pregnancy. This is
when a woman is about 18 to 24 weeks pregnant.

The procedure is similar to that of a pregnancy ultrasound. You will lie down
for the procedure.

The test can be performed on your belly (abdominal ultrasound) or through your
vagina (transvaginal ultrasound).

In an abdominal ultrasound, the person performing the test places a clear,
water-based gel on your belly. A hand-held probe is moved over the area. The
probe sends out sound waves, which bounce off the baby's heart and create a
picture of the heart on a computer screen.

In a transvaginal ultrasound, a much smaller probe is placed into the vagina.
A transvaginal ultrasound can be done earlier in the pregnancy and produces a
clearer image than an abdominal ultrasound.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The conducting gel may feel slightly cold and wet. You will not feel the
ultrasound waves.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to detect a heart problem before the baby is born. It can
provide a more detailed image of the baby's heart than a regular pregnancy
ultrasound.

The test can show:

      * Blood flow through the heart
      * Heart rhythm
      * Structures of the baby's heart 

The test may be done if:

      * A parent, sibling or other close family member had a heart defect or heart disease.
      * A routine pregnancy ultrasound detected an abnormal heart rhythm or possible heart problem in the unborn baby.
      * The mother has diabetes (prior to pregnancy), lupus, or phenylketonuria.
      * The mother has rubella during the first trimester of pregnancy.
      * The mother has used medicines that can damage the baby's developing heart (such as some epilepsy drugs and prescription acne medicines).
      * An amniocentesis revealed a chromosome disorder. 
      * There is some other reason to suspect that the baby is at higher risk for heart problems.

## Normal Results

The echocardiogram finds no problems in the unborn baby's heart.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * A problem in the way the baby's heart has formed (congenital heart disease)
      * A problem with the way the baby's heart works
      * Heart rhythm disturbances (arrhythmias)

The test may need to be repeated.

## Risks

There are no known risks to the mother or unborn baby.

## Considerations

Some heart defects cannot be seen before birth, even with fetal
echocardiography. These include small holes in the heart or mild valve
problems. Also, because it may not be possible to see every part of the large
blood vessels leading out of the baby's heart, problems in this area may go
undetected.

If the health care provider finds a problem in the structure of the heart, a
detailed ultrasound may be done to look for other problems with the developing
baby.

## References

Donofrio MT, Moon-Grady AJ, Hornberger LK, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of
fetal cardiac disease: a scientific statement from the American Heart
Association. _Circulation_. 2014;129(21):2183-2242. PMID: 24763516
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24763516.

Hagen-Ansert SL, Guthrie J. Fetal echocardiography: congenital heart disease.
In: Hagen-Ansert SL, ed. _Textbook of Diagnostic Sonography_. 8th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

Stamm ER, Drose JA. The fetal heart. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic
Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 37.

## Review Date 1/22/2019

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fetal Health and
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FetalHealthandDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Fetal
Health and Development _Read more_

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

