Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100192_1.htm    
                                Description: When you are about 15 weeks pregnant, your doctor may offer amniocentesis. Amniocentesis is a test that detects or rules out certain inherited disorders in a fetus. It also assesses lung maturity to see    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amniocentesis - series--Indication

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100192.htm

# Amniocentesis - series--Indication

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

      * Go to slide 1 out of 4
      * Go to slide 2 out of 4
      * Go to slide 3 out of 4
      * Go to slide 4 out of 4

![Amniocentesis - series -
Indication](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19152.jpg)

## Overview

When you are about 15 weeks pregnant, your doctor may offer amniocentesis.
Amniocentesis is a test that detects or rules out certain inherited disorders
in a fetus. It also assesses lung maturity to see if the fetus can endure an
early delivery. You can also find out the baby's gender.

Doctors generally offer amniocentesis to women with an increased risk of
having a baby with particular disorders, including those who:

      * Will be 35 or older when they deliver.
      * Have a close relative with a disorder.
      * Had a previous pregnancy or baby affected by a disorder.
      * Have test results (such as a high or low alpha-fetoprotein count) that may indicate an abnormality. 

Doctors also offer amniocentesis to women with pregnancy complications, such
as Rh-incompatibility, that necessitate early delivery. There are blood tests
and ultrasound tests that can be done earlier in the pregnancy which may avoid
the need for amniocentesis at times.

## Review Date 10/20/2017

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prenatal Testing

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

