Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003921.htm    
                                Description: Amniocentesis is a test that can be done during pregnancy to look for these problems in the developing baby:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amniocentesis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003921.htm

# Amniocentesis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amniocentesis is a test that can be done during pregnancy to look for these
problems in the developing baby:

      * Birth defects
      * Genetic problems
      * Infection
      * Lung developmentÂ 

## How the Test is Performed

Amniocentesis removes a small amount of fluid from the sac around the baby in
the womb (uterus). It is most often done in a doctor's office or medical
center. You do not need to stay in the hospital.

You will have a pregnancy ultrasound first. This helps your health care
provider see where the baby is in your womb.

Numbing medicine is then rubbed onto part of your belly. Sometimes, the
medicine is given through a shot in the skin on the belly area. The skin is
cleaned with a disinfecting liquid.

Your provider inserts a long, thin needle through your belly and into your
womb. A small amount of fluid (about 4 teaspoons or 20 milliliters) is removed
from the sac surrounding the baby. In most cases, the baby is watched by
ultrasound during the procedure.

The fluid is sent to a laboratory. Testing may include:

      * Genetic studies
      * Measurement of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels (a substance produced in the liver of the developing baby)
      * Culture for infection 

Results of genetic testing usually take about 2 weeks. Other test results come
back in 1 to 3 days.

Sometimes amniocentesis is also used later in pregnancy to:

      * Diagnose infection
      * Check whether the baby's lungs are developed and ready for delivery
      * Remove excess fluid from around the baby if there is too much amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios)

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your bladder may need to be full for the ultrasound. Check with your provider
about this.

Before the test, blood may be taken to find out your blood type and Rh factor.
You may get a shot of medicine called Rho(D) Immune Globulin (RhoGAM and other
brands) if you are Rh negative.

## Why the Test is Performed

Amniocentesis is usually offered to women who are at increased risk of having
a child with birth defects. This includes women who:

      * Will be 35 or older when they give birth
      * Had a screening test that shows there may be a birth defect or other problem
      * Have had babies with birth defects in other pregnancies
      * Have a family history of genetic disorders 

Genetic counseling is recommended before the procedure. This will allow you
to:

      * Learn about other prenatal tests
      * Make an informed decision about options for prenatal diagnosis 

This test:

      * Is a diagnostic test, not a screening test
      * Is greater than 99% accurate for diagnosing Down syndrome
      * Is most often done between 15 to 20 weeks, but can be performed at any time between 15 to 40 weeks

Amniocentesis can be used to diagnose many different gene and chromosome
problems in the baby, including:

      * Anencephaly (when the baby is missing a large portion of the brain)
      * Down syndrome
      * Rare metabolic disorders that are passed down through families
      * Other genetic problems, like trisomy 18 
      * Infections in the amniotic fluid

## Normal Results

A normal result means:

      * No genetic or chromosome problems were found in your baby.
      * Bilirubin and alpha-fetoprotein levels appear normal. 
      * No signs of infection were found.

Note: Amniocentesis typically is the most accurate test for genetic conditions
and malformation, Although rare, a baby may still have genetic or other types
of birth defects, even if amniocentesis results are normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may mean your baby has:

      * A gene or chromosome problem, such as Down syndrome
      * Birth defects that involve the spine or brain, such as spina bifida

Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results. Ask
your provider:

      * How the condition or defect may be treated during or after your pregnancy
      * What special needs your child may have after birth
      * What other options you have about maintaining or ending your pregnancy

## Risks

Risks are minimal, but may include:

      * Infection or injury to the baby
      * Miscarriage
      * Leaking of amniotic fluid
      * Vaginal bleeding

## Alternative Names

Culture - amniotic fluid; Culture - amniotic cells; Alpha-fetoprotein -
amniocentesis

## Images

      * ![Amniocentesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1062t.jpg)Amniocentesis
      * ![Amniocentesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9631t.jpg)Amniocentesis
      * ![Amniocentesis - series - Indication](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19152t.jpg)Amniocentesis - series

## References

Driscoll DA, Simpson JL, Holzgreve W, Otano L. Genetic screening and prenatal
genetic diagnosis. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds.
_Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Wapner RJ. Prental diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R,
Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 30.

## Review Date 7/17/2017

Updated by: Cynthia D. White, MD, Fellow American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists, Group Health Cooperative, Bellevue, WA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

