Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100196_1.htm    
                                Description: If you are at risk for having a baby with a genetic defect or blood disorder, your doctor may recommend percutaneous umbilical cord blood sampling (PUBS), which is performed at 18 weeks    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Percutaneous umbilical cord blood sampling - series--Normal anatomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100196.htm

# Percutaneous umbilical cord blood sampling - series--Normal anatomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

      * Go to slide 1 out of 4
      * Go to slide 2 out of 4
      * Go to slide 3 out of 4
      * Go to slide 4 out of 4

![Percutaneous umbilical cord blood sampling -
series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19174.jpg)

## Overview

If you are at risk for having a baby with a genetic defect or blood disorder,
your doctor may recommend percutaneous umbilical cord blood sampling (PUBS),
which is performed at 18 weeks' gestation.

During the procedure, the doctor draws a sample of the fetus' blood directly
from the umbilical cord. The sample is then analyzed for genetic defects and
other health conditions.

This procedure can also be used to check if your baby has anemia. If your baby
has severe anemia, your health care provider can immediately give your baby a
blood transfusion.

## Review Date 5/16/2016

Updated by: Irina Burd, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Gynecology and
Obstetrics at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Isla Ogilvie, PhD, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prenatal Testing

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

