Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003406.htm    
                                Description: Chorionic villus sampling (CVS) is a test some pregnant women have to screen their baby for genetic problems.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chorionic villus sampling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003406.htm

# Chorionic villus sampling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chorionic villus sampling (CVS) is a test some pregnant women have to screen
their baby for genetic problems.

## How the Test is Performed

CVS can be done through the cervix (transcervical) or through the belly
(transabdominal). Miscarriage rates are slightly higher when the test is done
through the cervix.

The transcervical procedure is performed by inserting a thin plastic tube
through the vagina and cervix to reach the placenta. Your health care provider
uses ultrasound images to help guide the tube into the best area for sampling.
A small sample of chorionic villus (placental) tissue is then removed.

The transabdominal procedure is performed by inserting a needle through the
abdomen and uterus and into the placenta. Ultrasound is used to help guide the
needle, and a small amount of tissue is drawn into the syringe.

The sample is placed in a dish and evaluated in a lab. Test results take about
2 weeks.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will explain the procedure, its risks, and alternative
procedures such as amniocentesis.

You will be asked to sign a consent form before this procedure. You may be
asked to wear a hospital gown.

The morning of the procedure, you may be asked to drink fluids and refrain
from urinating. Doing so fills your bladder, which helps your provider see
where to best guide the needle.

Tell your provider if you are allergic to iodine or shellfish, or if you have
any other allergies.

## How the Test will Feel

The ultrasound does not hurt. A clear, water-based gel is applied to your skin
to help with the transmission of the sound waves. A hand-held probe called a
transducer is then moved over your belly area. In addition, your provider may
apply pressure on your abdomen to find the position of your uterus.

The gel will feel cold at first and may irritate your skin if not washed off
after the procedure.

Some women say the vaginal approach feels like a Pap test with some discomfort
and a feeling of pressure. There may be a small amount of vaginal bleeding
following the procedure.

An obstetrician can perform this procedure in about 5 minutes, after
preparation.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to identify any genetic disease in your unborn baby. It is
very accurate, and it can be done very early in a pregnancy.

Genetic problems can occur in any pregnancy. However, the following factors
increase the risk:

      * An older mother
      * Past pregnancies with genetic problems
      * Family history of genetic disorders

Genetic counseling is recommended before the procedure. This will allow you to
make an unhurried, informed decision about options for prenatal diagnosis.

CVS can be done sooner in pregnancy than amniocentesis, most often at about 10
to 12 weeks.

CVS does not detect:

      * Neural tube defects (these involve the spinal column or brain)
      * Rh incompatibility (this occurs when a pregnant woman has Rh-negative blood and her unborn baby has Rh-positive blood)
      * Birth defects
      * Issues related to brain function, such as autism and intellectual disability  
  

## Normal Results

A normal result means there are no signs of genetic defects in the developing
baby. Even though the test results are very accurate, no test is 100% accurate
at testing for genetic problems in a pregnancy.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

This test can help detect hundreds of genetic disorders. Abnormal results may
be due to many different genetic conditions, including:

      * Down syndrome
      * Hemoglobinopathies
      * Tay-Sachs disease

Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results. Ask
your provider:

      * How the condition or defect may be treated either during or after the pregnancy
      * What special needs your child may have after birth
      * What other options you have about maintaining or ending your pregnancy

## Risks

The risks of CVS are only slightly higher than those of amniocentesis.

Possible complications include:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Miscarriage (in up to 1 in 100 women)
      * Rh incompatibility in the mother
      * Rupture of membranesÂ which may lead to miscarriage

## Considerations

If your blood is Rh negative, you may receive a medicine called Rho(D) immune
globulin (RhoGAM and other brands) to prevent Rh incompatibility.

You will receive a follow-up ultrasound 2 to 4 days after the procedure to
make sure your pregnancy is proceeding normally.

## Alternative Names

CVS; Pregnancy - CVS; Genetic counseling - CVS

## Images

      * ![Chorionic villus sampling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9181t.jpg)Chorionic villus sampling
      * ![Chorionic villus sampling - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19163t.jpg)Chorionic villus sampling - series

## References

Cheng EY. Prenatal diagnosis. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases
of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Driscoll DA, Simpson JL, Holzgreve W, Otano L. Genetic screening and prenatal
genetic diagnosis. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds.
_Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Wapner RJ, Dugoff L. Prental diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 32.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

