Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003407.htm    
                                Description: The fetal-maternal erythrocyte distribution test is used to measure the number of the unborn baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fetal-maternal erythrocyte distribution blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003407.htm

# Fetal-maternal erythrocyte distribution blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The fetal-maternal erythrocyte distribution test is used to measure the number
of the unborn baby's red blood cells in a pregnant woman's blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Rh incompatibility is a condition that occurs when the mother's blood type is
Rh-negative (Rh-) and her unborn baby's blood type is Rh-positive (Rh+). If
the mother is Rh+, or if both parents are Rh-, there is no reason to worry
about Rh incompatibility.

If the baby's blood is Rh+ and gets into the mother's Rh- bloodstream, her
body will produce antibodies. These antibodies could pass back through the
placenta and harm the developing baby's red blood cells. This can cause mild
to serious anemia in the unborn baby.

This test determines the amount of blood that has been exchanged between the
mother and fetus. All Rh- pregnant women should get this test if they have
bleeding or a risk of bleeding during the pregnancy.

In a woman whose blood is Rh incompatible with her infant, this test helpsÂ
find outÂ how much Rh immune globulin (RhoGAM) she must receive to prevent her
body from producing abnormal proteins that attack the unborn baby in future
pregnancies.

## Normal Results

In a normal value, no or few of the baby's cells are in the mother's blood.
The standard dose of RhoGAM is enough in this case.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In an abnormal test result, blood from the unborn baby is leaking into the
mother's blood circulation. The more of the baby's cells there are, the more
Rh immune globulin the mother must receive.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Kleihauer-Betke stain; Flow cytometry - fetal-maternal erythrocyte
distribution; Rh incompatibility - erythrocyte distribution

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Betke-Kleihauer stain (fetal hemoglobin stain,
Kleihauer-Betke stain, K-B) - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:193-194.

Cooling L, Downs T. Immunohematology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

Moise KJ Jr. Red cell alloimunization. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![Incompatibilidad
Rh](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RhIncompatibility_thumb.jpg)Rh
Incompatibility _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

