Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000485.htm    
                                Description: While you are pregnant, your health care provider may do tests to check your baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Monitoring your baby before labor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000485.htm

# Monitoring your baby before labor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

While you are pregnant, your health care provider may do tests to check your
baby's health. The tests may be done at any time while you are pregnant.

## Tests you may Need Before Labor

Tests may be needed for women who:

      * Have a high-risk pregnancy
      * Have a health condition, such as diabetes
      * Have had complications in a prior pregnancy
      * Have a pregnancy that lasts longer than 40 weeks (overdue) 

The tests may be done more than once so the provider can track the progress of
the baby over time. They will help the provider find problems or things that
are not normal (abnormal). Talk to your provider about your tests and the
results.

## Non-stress Test (NST)

A healthy baby's heart rate will rise from time to time. During the non-stress
test (NST), your provider will watch to see if the baby's heart rate goes
faster while resting or moving. You will receive no medicines for this test.

If the baby's heart rate does not go up on its own, you may be asked to rub
your hand over your belly. This may wake up a sleepy baby. A device may also
be used to send a noise into your belly. It will not cause any pain.

You will be hooked up to a fetal monitor, which is a heart monitor for your
baby. If the baby's heart rate goes up from time to time, the test results
will most likely be normal. NST results that are reactive mean that the baby's
heart rate went up normally.

Non-reactive results mean that the baby's heart rate did not go up enough. If
the heart rate does not go up enough, you may need more tests.

Another term you might hear for this test result is a categorization of 1, 2,
or 3.

      * Category 1 means the result is normal.
      * Category 2 means further observation or testing is necessary.
      * Category 3 typically means your doctor will recommend delivery right away. 

## Contraction Stress Test (CST)

If the NST results are not normal, you may need a CST. This test will help the
provider know how well the baby will do during labor.

Labor is stressful for a baby. Every contraction means the baby gets less
blood and oxygen for a short while. For most babies this is not a problem. But
some babies have a hard time. A CST shows how the baby's heart rate reacts to
the stress of contractions.

A fetal monitor will be used. You will be given oxytocin (Pitocin), a hormone
that makes the uterus contract. The contractions will be like the ones you
will have during labor, only milder. If the baby's heart rate slows down
rather than speeds up after a contraction, the baby may have problems during
labor.

Most women feel mild discomfort during this test, but not pain.

If the results are abnormal, your doctor may admit you to the hospital to
deliver the baby early.

## Biophysical Profile (BPP)

A BPP is a NST with an ultrasound. If the NST results are not reactive, a BPP
may be done.

The BPP looks at the baby's movement, body tone, breathing, and the results of
the NST. The BPP also looks at amniotic fluid, which is the liquid that
surrounds the baby in the uterus.

The BPP test results can be normal, abnormal, or unclear. If the results are
unclear, you may need to repeat the test. Results that are not normal may mean
that the baby needs to be delivered early.

## Modified Biophysical Profile (MBPP)

A MBPP is also a NST with an ultrasound. The ultrasound looks only at how much
amniotic fluid there is. The MBPP test takes less time than a BPP. Your doctor
may feel that the MBPP test will be enough to check the baby's health, without
doing a full BPP.

In a healthy pregnancy, these tests may not be done. But you may need some of
these tests if:

      * You have medical problems
      * You have the potential for pregnancy problems (high risk pregnancy)
      * You have gone a week or more past your due date 

Talk to your provider about the tests and what the results mean for you and
your baby.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - monitoring; Pregnancy care - monitoring; Non-stress test -
monitoring; NST- monitoring; Contraction stress test - monitoring; CST-
monitoring; Biophysical profile - monitoring; BPP - monitoring

## References

Greenberg MB, Druzin ML. Antepartum fetal evaluation. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 11.

Kaimal AJ. Assessment of fetal health. In: Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams JD,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 32.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prenatal Testing

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

