Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003414.htm    
                                Description: A buccal (pronounced &quot;buckle&quot;) smear is the painless removal of a sample of cells from the inside of your mouth (cheek) for study.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Buccal smear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003414.htm

# Buccal smear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A buccal (pronounced "buckle") smear is the painless removal of a sample of
cells from the inside of your mouth (cheek) for study.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider will gently scrape the inside of the cheek with a
small spatula to collect cells for testing. Sometimes, you can do this
yourself.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Rinse and wash the mouth as instructed.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a scraping sensation as cells are removed from the cheek.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to get cells for chromosome or DNA analysis, most often for
genetic testing.

This test may also help establish sexual identity. When the test is used in
this way, it's called the sex chromatin test.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Sex chromatin test; Buccal swab

## Images

      * ![Buccal  smear - illustration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9140t.jpg)Buccal smear - illustration

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Barr body analysis buccal smear for staining sex
chromatin mass - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:186-187.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Genetic
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticTesting_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Testing _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

