Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003338.htm    
                                Description: Endoscopy is a way of looking inside the body using a flexible tube that has a small camera and light on the end of it. This instrument is called an endoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003338.htm

# Endoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endoscopy is a way of looking inside the body using a flexible tube that has a
small camera and light on the end of it. This instrument is called an
endoscope.

Small instruments can be inserted through an endoscope and used to:

      * Look more closely at an area inside the body
      * Take samples of abnormal tissues
      * Treat certain diseases
      * Remove tumors
      * Stop bleeding
      * Remove foreign bodies (such as food stuck in the esophagus, the tube that connects your throat to your stomach) 

## How the Test is Performed

An endoscope is passed through a natural body opening or small cut. There are
many types of endoscopes. Each one is named according to the organs or areas
they are used to examine.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Preparation for the procedure varies depending on the test. For example, there
is no preparation needed for anoscopy. But a special diet and laxatives are
needed to prepare for a colonoscopy. Follow your health care provider's
instructions.

## How the Test will Feel

All of these tests may cause discomfort or pain. Some are done after sedatives
and pain medicines are given. Check with your provider about what to expect.

## Why the Test is Performed

Each endoscopy test is done for different reasons. Endoscopy is often used to
examine and treat parts of the digestive tract, such as:

      * Anoscopy views the inside of the anus, the very lowest part of the colon.
      * Colonoscopy views the inside of the colon (large intestine) and rectum.
      * Enteroscopy views the small intestine (small bowel).
      * ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) views the biliary tract, small tubes that drain the gallbladder, liver, and pancreas.
      * Sigmoidoscopy views the inside of the lower part of the colon called the sigmoid colon and rectum.
      * Upper endoscopy (esophagogastroduodenoscopy, or EGD) views the lining of the esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine (called the duodenum).
      * Bronchoscopy is used to look in the airways (windpipe, or trachea) and lungs.
      * Cystoscopy is used to view the inside of the bladder. The scope is passed through the opening of the urethra.
      * Laparoscopy is used to look directly at the ovaries, appendix, or other abdominal organs. The scope is inserted through small surgical cuts in the pelvic or belly area. Tumors or organs in the abdomen or pelvis can be removed. 

Arthroscopy is used to look directly in the joints, such as the knee. The
scope is inserted through small surgical cuts around the joint. Problems with
bones, tendons, ligaments can be treated.

## Risks

Each endoscopy test has its own risks. Your provider will explain these to you
before the procedure.

## Images

      * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy

## References

Carlson SM, Goldberg J, Lentz GM. Endoscopy: hysteroscopy and laparoscopy:
indications, contraindications, and complications. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM,
Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Phillips BB. General principles of arthroscopy. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Vargo JJ. Preparation for and complications of GI endoscopy. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 41.

Yung RC, Flint PW. Tracheobronchial endoscopy. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 72.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

