Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007627.htm    
                                Description: Nasal endoscopy is a test to view the inside of the nose and sinuses to check for problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal endoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007627.htm

# Nasal endoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nasal endoscopy is a test to view the inside of the nose and sinuses to check
for problems.

## How the Test is Performed

The test takes about 1 to 5 minutes. Your health care provider will:

      * Spray your nose with a medicine to reduce swelling and numb the area.
      * Insert the nasal endoscope into your nose. This is a long flexible or rigid tube with a camera at the end to look inside the nose and sinuses. Pictures may be projected onto a screen.
      * Examine the inside of your nose and sinuses.
      * Remove polyps, mucus, or other masses from the nose or sinuses. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to do anything to prepare for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

This test does not hurt.

      * You may feel discomfort or pressure as the tube is put into your nose.
      * The spray numbs your nose. It can numb your mouth and throat, and you may feel like you cannot swallow. This numbness goes away in 20 to 30 minutes.
      * You might sneeze during the test. If you feel a sneeze coming on, let your provider know.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have a nasal endoscopy to figure out what is causing problems in your
nose and sinuses.

During the procedure, your provider may:

      * Look at the inside of your nose and sinuses
      * Take a sample of tissue for a biopsy
      * Do small surgeries to remove polyps, excess mucus, or other masses

Your provider may recommend nasal endoscopy if you are having:

      * A lot of sinus infections
      * Lots of drainage from your nose
      * Face pain or pressure
      * Sinus headaches
      * A hard time breathing through your nose
      * Nose bleeds
      * Loss of sense of smell

## Normal Results

The inside of the nose and bones look normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Nasal endoscopy helps with the diagnosis of:

      * Polyps
      * Blockages
      * Sinusitis
      * Swollen and runny nose that will not go away
      * Nasal masses or tumors
      * A foreign object (like a marble) in the nose or sinus
      * Deviated septum (many insurance plans require a nasal endoscopy prior to surgery to correct it) 

## Risks

There is very little risk with a nasal endoscopy for most people.

      * If you have a bleeding disorder or take blood-thinning medicine, let your provider know so they are extra careful to decrease bleeding.
      * If you have heart disease, there is a small risk that you could feel lightheaded or faint. 

## Alternative Names

Rhinoscopy

## References

Courey MS, Pletcher SD. Upper airway disorders. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 49.

Lal D, Stankiewicz JA. Primary sinus surgery. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 49.

## Review Date 8/22/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

