Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003851.htm    
                                Description: Laryngoscopy is an exam of the voice box (larynx). It can be done using a small mirror held just below the back of your palate, or a rigid or flexible viewing tube called a laryngoscope placed in your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laryngoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003851.htm

# Laryngoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laryngoscopy is an exam of the voice box (larynx). It can be done using a
small mirror held just below the back of your palate, or a rigid or flexible
viewing tube called a laryngoscope placed in your mouth.

In some cases, you may need anesthesia.

## Images

      * ![Laryngoscope](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9503t.jpg)Laryngoscope
      * ![Laryngoscopy - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15891t.jpg)Laryngoscopy - series

## References

King EF, Couch ME. History, physical examination, and the preoperative
evaluation. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 4.

Reid PT, Innes JA. Respiratory medicine. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan
MWJ, Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

## Review Date 8/12/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

