Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007451.htm    
                                Description: Radiology is a branch of medicine that uses imaging technology to diagnose and treat disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Imaging and radiology

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007451.htm

# Imaging and radiology

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Radiology is a branch of medicine that uses imaging technology to diagnose and
treat disease.

Radiology may be divided into two different areas, diagnostic radiology and
interventional radiology. Doctors who specialize in radiology are called
radiologists.

## Information

DIAGNOSTIC RADIOLOGY

Diagnostic radiology helps health care providers see structures inside your
body. Doctors that specialize in the interpretation of these images are called
diagnostic radiologists. Using the diagnostic images, the radiologist or other
physicians can often:

      * Diagnose the cause of your symptoms
      * Monitor how well your body is responding to a treatment you are receiving for your disease or condition
      * Screen for different illnesses, such as breast cancer, colon cancer, or heart disease 

The most common types of diagnostic radiology exams include:

      * Computed tomography (CT), also known as a computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan, including CT angiography
      * Fluoroscopy, including upper GI and barium enema
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)
      * Mammography
      * Nuclear medicine, which includes such tests as a bone scan, thyroid scan, and thallium cardiac stress test
      * Plain x-rays, which includes chest x-ray
      * Positron emission tomography, also called PET imaging, PET scan, or PET-CT when it is combined with CT
      * Ultrasound

INTERVENTIONAL RADIOLOGY

Interventional radiologists are doctors that use imaging such as CT,
ultrasound, MRI, and fluoroscopy to help guide procedures. The imaging is
helpful to the doctor when inserting catheters, wires, and other small
instruments and tools into your body. This typically allows for smaller
incisions (cuts).

Doctors can use this technology to detect or treat conditions in almost any
part of the body instead of directly looking inside of your body through a
scope (camera) or with open surgery.

Interventional radiologists often are involved in treating cancers or tumors,
blockages in the arteries and veins, fibroids in the uterus, back pain, liver
problems, and kidney problems.

The doctor will make no incision or only a very small one. You rarely need to
stay in the hospital after the procedure. Most people need only moderate
sedation (medicines to help you relax).

Examples of interventional radiology procedures include:

      * Angiography or angioplasty and stent placement
      * Embolization to control bleeding
      * Cancer treatments including tumor embolization using chemoembolization or Y-90 radioembolization
      * Tumor ablation with radiofrequency ablation, cryoablation, or microwave ablation
      * Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty
      * Needle biopsies of different organs, such as the lungs and thyroid gland
      * Breast biopsy, guided either by stereotactic or ultrasound techniques
      * Uterine artery embolization
      * Feeding tube placement
      * Venous access catheter placement, such as ports and PICCs 

## Alternative Names

Interventional radiology; Diagnostic radiology; X-ray imaging

## References

Mettler FA. Introduction. In: Mettler FA, ed. _Essentials of Radiology_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 1.

Spratt JD. Technical aspects and applications of diagnostic radiology. In:
Standring S, ed. _Gray's Anatomy_. 41st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 7.1.

Watson N. General notes. In: Watson N, ed. _Chapman & Nakielny's Guide to
Radiological Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 1.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
27.

## Review Date 6/24/2019

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diagnostic
Imaging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiagnosticImaging_thumb.jpg)Diagnostic
Imaging _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

