Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003899.htm    
                                Description: Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid gland is a procedure to remove thyroid cells for examination. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland located inside the front of the lower neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003899.htm

# Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid gland is a procedure to remove thyroid
cells for examination. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland located
inside the front of the lower neck.

## How the Test is Performed

This test may be done in the health care provider's office or in a hospital.
Numbing medicine (anesthesia) may or may not be used. Because the needle is
very thin, you may not need this medicine.

You lie on your back with a pillow under your shoulders with your neck
extended. The biopsy site is cleaned. A thin needle is inserted into your
thyroid, where it collects a sample of thyroid cells and fluid. The needle is
then taken out. If the provider cannot feel the biopsy site, they may use
ultrasound or a CT scan to guide where to put the needle. Ultrasound and CT
scans are painless procedures that show images inside the body.

Pressure is applied to the biopsy site to stop any bleeding. The site is then
covered with a bandage.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider if you have drug allergies, bleeding problems, or are
pregnant. Also, make sure your provider has a current list of all medicines
you take, including herbal remedies and over-the-counter drugs.

A few days to a week before your biopsy, you may be asked to temporarily stop
taking blood-thinning medicines. The drugs you may need to stop taking
include:

      * Aspirin
      * Clopidogrel (Plavix)
      * Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)
      * Naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn)
      * Warfarin (Coumadin)

Be sure to talk with your provider before stopping any drugs.

## How the Test will Feel

If numbing medicine is used, you may feel a sting as the needle is inserted
and the medicine is injected.

As the biopsy needle passes into your thyroid, you may feel some pressure, but
it should not be painful.

You may have slight discomfort in your neck afterward. You may also have
slight bruising, which soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This is a test to diagnose thyroid disease or thyroid cancer. It is often used
to find out if thyroid nodules that your provider can feel or seen on an
ultrasound are noncancerous or cancerous.

## Normal Results

A normal result shows the thyroid tissue looks normal and the cells do not
appear to be cancer under a microscope.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean:

      * Thyroid disease such as goiter or thyroiditis
      * Noncancerous tumors
      * Thyroid cancer 

## Risks

The main risk is bleeding into or around the thyroid gland. With severe
bleeding, there may be pressure on the windpipe (trachea). This problem is
rare.

## Alternative Names

Thyroid nodule fine needle aspirate biopsy; Biopsy - thyroid - skinny-needle;
Skinny-needle thyroid biopsy; Thyroid nodule - aspiration; Thyroid cancer -
aspiration

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Thyroid gland biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8967t.jpg)Thyroid gland biopsy

## References

Lai SY, Mandel SJ, Weber RS. Management of thyroid neoplasms. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund VJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 123.

Schlumberger MJ, Filetti S, Alexander EK, Hay ID. Nontoxic diffuse goiter,
nodular thyroid disorders, and thyroid malignancies. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![Thyroid Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidTests_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

