Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007283.htm    
                                Description: A venogram is a way to look at veins in your body. It uses x-rays and a radiographic contrast material. It is most often used to look at veins in the legs and belly area (abdomen).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Venogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007283.htm

# Venogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A venogram is a way to look at veins in your body. It uses x-rays and a
radiographic contrast material. It is most often used to look at veins in the
legs and belly area (abdomen).

Veins are not normally seen in an x-ray. That is why the contrast material is
used. The health care provider injects this dye into a vein so it shows up
better on x-rays.

Related topics include:

      * Renal venogram
      * Leg venogram

## Alternative Names

Phlebogram

## References

Pin RH, Ayad MT, Gillespie D. Venography. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

Solves JM, Almeida JI, Aguirre PGS, Abi-Chaker AM. Venous diagnostic tools.
In: Almeida JI, ed. _Atlas of Endovascular Venous Surgery_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

## Review Date 4/3/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

