Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003337.htm    
                                Description: X-rays are a type of electromagnetic radiation, just like visible light.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

X-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003337.htm

# X-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

X-rays are a type of electromagnetic radiation, just like visible light.

An x-ray machine sendsÂ individual x-ray particles through the body. The
images are recorded on a computer or film.

      * Structures that are dense (such as bone) will block most of the x-ray particles, and will appear white. 
      * Metal and contrast media (special dye used to highlight areas of the body) will also appear white. 
      * Structures containing air will be black, and muscle, fat, and fluid will appear as shades of gray.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital radiology department or in the health care
provider's office. How you are positioned depends on the type of x-ray being
done. Several different x-ray views may be needed.

You need to stay still when you are having an x-ray. Motion can cause blurry
images. You may be asked to hold your breath or not moveÂ for a second or two
when the image is being taken.

The following are common types of x-rays:

      * Abdominal x-ray
      * Barium x-ray
      * Bone x-ray
      * Chest x-ray
      * Dental x-ray
      * Extremity x-ray
      * Hand x-ray
      * Joint x-ray
      * Lumbosacral spine x-ray
      * Neck x-ray
      * Pelvis x-ray
      * Sinus x-ray
      * Skull x-ray
      * Thoracic spine x-ray
      * Upper GI and small bowel series
      * X-ray of the skeleton

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before the x-ray, tell your health care team if you are pregnant, may be
pregnant, or if you have an IUD inserted.

You will need to remove all jewelry. Metal can cause unclear images. You may
need to wear a hospital gown.

## How the Test will Feel

X-rays are painless. Some body positions needed during an x-ray may be
uncomfortable for a short time.

## Risks

X-rays are monitored and regulated so you get the minimum amount of radiation
exposure needed to produce the image.

For most x-rays, the risk of cancer or defects is very low. Most experts feel
that the benefits of appropriate x-ray imagingÂ greatly outweigh anyÂ risks.

Young children and babies in the womb are more sensitive to the risks of
x-rays. Tell your provider if you think you might be pregnant.Â

## Alternative Names

Radiography

## Images

      * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
      * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8988t.jpg)X-ray

## References

Geleijns J, Tack D. Medical physics: radiation risks. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 1.

Mettler FA Jr. Introduction: an approach to image interpretation. In: Mettler
FA Jr, ed. _Essentials of Radiology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 1.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

