Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003811.htm    
                                Description: This test is an x-ray of one or both hands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hand x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003811.htm

# Hand x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test is an x-ray of one or both hands.

## How the Test is Performed

A hand x-ray is taken in a hospital radiology department or your health care
provider's office by an x-ray technician. You will be asked to place your hand
on the x-ray table, and keep it very still as the picture is being taken. You
may need to change the position of your hand, soÂ more images can be taken.

## How to Prepare for the Test

TellÂ the provider if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant. Remove
all jewelry from your hand and wrist.

## How the Test will Feel

Generally, there is little or no discomfort associated with x-rays.

## Why the Test is Performed

Hand x-ray is used to detect fractures, tumors, foreign objects, or
degenerative conditions of the hand. Hand x-rays may also be done to find out
a child's "bone age." This can help determine if a health problem is
preventing the child from growing properly or how much growth is left.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may include:

      * Fractures
      * Bone tumors
      * Degenerative bone conditions
      * Osteomyelitis (inflammation of the bone caused by an infection)

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated to provide
the minimum amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits. Pregnant women
and children are more sensitive to the risks of x-rays.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - hand

## Images

      * ![Hand X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8987t.jpg)Hand X-ray

## References

Chong AK, Tan DMK. Diagnostic imaging of the hand and wrist. In: Neligan PC,
ed. _Plastic Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap
3.

Stearns DA, Peak DA. Hand. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

