Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003813.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary angiography is a test to see how blood flows through the lung.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003813.htm

# Pulmonary angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary angiography is a test to see how blood flows through the lung.

Angiography is an imaging test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see
inside the arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from the
heart.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done at a hospital. You will be asked to lie on an x-ray table.

      * Before the test starts, you will be given a mild sedative to help you relax.
      * An area of your body, most often the arm or groin, is cleaned and numbed with a local numbing medicine (anesthetic).
      * The radiologist inserts a needle or makes a small cut in a vein in the area that has been cleaned. A thin hollow tube called a catheter is inserted.
      * The catheter is placed through the vein and carefully moved up into and through the right-sided heart chambers and into the pulmonary artery, which leads to the lungs. The doctor can see live x-ray images of the area on a TV-like monitor, and use them as a guide.
      * Once the catheter is in place, dye is injected into the catheter. X-ray images are taken to see how the dye moves through the lungs' arteries. The dye helps detect any blockages to blood flow.

Your pulse, blood pressure, and breathing are checked during the procedure.
Electrocardiogram (ECG) leads are taped to your arms and legs to monitor your
heart.

After the x-rays are taken, the needle and catheter are removed.

Pressure is applied to the puncture site for 20 to 45 minutes to stop the
bleeding. After that time the area is checked and a tight bandage is applied.
You should keep your leg straight for 6 hours after the procedure.

Rarely, medicines are delivered to the lungs if a blood clot has been found
during the procedure.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours before the
test.

You will be asked to wear a hospital gown and sign a consent form for the
procedure. Remove jewelry from the area being imaged.

Tell your health care provider:

      * If you are pregnant
      * If you have ever had any allergic reactions to x-ray contrast material, shellfish, or iodine substances
      * If you are allergic to any medicines
      * Which medicines you are taking (including any herbal preparations)
      * If you have ever had any bleeding problems 

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray table may feel cold. Ask for a blanket or pillow if you are
uncomfortable You may feel a brief sting when the numbing medicine is given
and a brief, sharp, stick as the catheter is inserted.

You may feel some pressure as the catheter moves up into the lungs. The
contrast dye can cause a feeling of warmth and flushing. This is normal and
usually goes away in a few seconds.

You may have some tenderness and bruising at the site of the injection after
the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to detect blood clots (pulmonary embolism) and other
blockages in the blood flow in the lung. Most of the time, your provider will
have tried other tests to diagnose a blood clot in the lungs.

Pulmonary angiography may also be used to help diagnose:

      * AV malformations of the lung
      * Congenital (present from birth) narrowing of the pulmonary vessels
      * Pulmonary artery aneurysms
      * Pulmonary hypertension, high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs

## Normal Results

The x-ray will show normal structures for the age of the person.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Aneurysms of pulmonary vessels
      * Blood clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism)
      * Narrowed blood vessel
      * Primary pulmonary hypertension
      * Tumor in the lung 

## Risks

A person may develop an abnormal heart rhythm during this test. The health
care team will monitor your heart and can treat any abnormal rhythms that
develop.

Other risks include:

      * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
      * Damage to the blood vessel as the needle and catheter are inserted
      * Blood clot traveling to the lungs, causing an embolism
      * Excessive bleeding or a blood clot where the catheter is inserted, which can reduce blood flow to the leg
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Hematoma (a collection of blood at the site of the needle puncture)
      * Injury to the nerves at the puncture site
      * Kidney damage from the dye
      * Injury to blood vessels in the lung
      * Bleeding into the lung
      * Coughing up blood
      * Respiratory failure
      * Death

There is low radiation exposure. Your provider will monitor and regulate the
x-rays to provide the least amount of radiation exposure. Most experts feel
that the risk is low compared with the benefits. Pregnant women and children
are more sensitive to the risks for x-rays.

## Considerations

Computed tomography (CT) angiography of the chest has largely replaced this
test.

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary arteriography; Pulmonary angiogram; Angiogram of the lungs

## Images

      * ![Pulmonary arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9796t.jpg)Pulmonary arteries

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. P. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:842-951.

Hartmann IJC, Schaefer-Prokop CM. Pulmonary circulation and pulmonary
thromboembolism. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 23.

Jackson JE, Meaney JFM. Angiography: principles, techniques and complications.
In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger &
Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 84.

Nazeef M, Sheehan JP. Venous thromboembolism. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:858-868.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pulmonary
Hypertension](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryHypertension2_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Hypertension _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

