Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003814.htm    
                                Description: Aortic angiography is a procedure that uses a special dye and x-rays to see how blood flows through the aorta. The aorta is the major artery. It carries blood out of the heart, and through your abdomen    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aortic angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003814.htm

# Aortic angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aortic angiography is a procedure that uses a special dye and x-rays to see
how blood flows through the aorta. The aorta is the major artery. It carries
blood out of the heart, and through your abdomen or belly.

Angiography uses x-rays and a special dye to see inside the arteries. Arteries
are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done at a hospital. Before the test starts, you will be given a
mild sedative to help you relax.

      * An area of your body, most often in your arm or groin area, is cleaned and numbed with a local numbing medicine (anesthetic).
      * A radiologist or cardiologist will place a needle into the groin blood vessel. A guidewire and a long tube (catheter) will be passed through this needle.
      * The catheter is moved into the aorta. The doctor can see live images of the aorta on a TV-like monitor. X-rays are used to guide the catheter to the correct position.
      * Once the catheter is in place, dye is injected into it. X-ray images are taken to see how the dye moves through the aorta. The dye helps detect any blockages in blood flow. 

After the x-rays or treatments are finished, the catheter is removed. Pressure
is applied to the puncture site for 20 to 45 minutes to stop the bleeding.
After that time, the area is checked and a tight bandage is applied. The leg
is most often kept straight for another 6 hours after the procedure.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours before the
test.

You will wear a hospital gown and sign a consent form for the procedure.
Remove jewelry from the area being studied.

Tell your health care provider:

      * If you are pregnant
      * If you have ever had any allergic reactions to x-ray contrast material, shellfish, or iodine substances
      * If you are allergic to any medicines
      * Which medicines you are taking (including any herbal preparations)
      * If you have ever had any bleeding problems 

You will be awake during the test. You may feel a sting as the numbing
medicine is given and some pressure as the catheter is inserted. You may feel
a warm flushing when the contrast dye flows through the catheter. This is
normal and most often goes away in a few seconds.

You may have some discomfort from lying on the hospital table and staying
still for a long time.

In most cases, you can resume normal activity the day after the procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may ask for this test if there are signs or symptoms of a
problem with the aorta or its branches, including:

      * Aortic aneurysm
      * Aortic dissection
      * Congenital (present from birth) problems
      * AV malformation
      * Double aortic arch
      * Coarctation of the aorta
      * Vascular ring
      * Injury to the aorta
      * Takayasu arteritis

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm
      * Aortic dissection
      * Aortic regurgitation
      * Congenital (present from birth) problems
      * Double aortic arch
      * Coarctation of the aorta
      * Vascular ring
      * Injury to the aorta
      * Mesenteric ischemia
      * Peripheral artery disease
      * Renal artery stenosis
      * Takayasu arteritis

## Risks

Risks for aortic angiography include:

      * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
      * Blockage of the artery
      * Blood clot that travels to the lungs
      * Bruising at the site of catheter insertion
      * Damage to the blood vessel where the needle and catheter are inserted
      * Excessive bleeding or a blood clot where the catheter is inserted, which can reduce blood flow to the leg
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Hematoma, a collection of blood at the site of the needle puncture
      * Infection
      * Injury to the nerves at the needle puncture site
      * Kidney damage from the dye 

## Considerations

This procedure may be done with left heart catheterization to look for
coronary artery disease.

Aortic angiography has been mostly replaced by computed tomography (CT)
angiography or magnetic resonance (MR) angiography.

## Alternative Names

Angiography - aorta; Aortography; Abdominal aorta angiogram; Aortic
arteriogram; Aneurysm - aortic arteriogram

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
      * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge

## Images

      * ![Cardiac arteriogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9077t.jpg)Cardiac arteriogram

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. C. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:266-432.

Fattori R, Lovato L. The thoracic aorta: diagnostic aspects. In: Adam A, Dixon
AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 24.

Grant LA, Griffin N. The aorta. In: Grant LA, Griffin N, eds. _Grainger &
Allison's Diagnostic Radiology Essentials_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 2.4.

Jackson JE, Meaney JFM. Angiography: principles, techniques and complications.
In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger &
Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 84.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

