Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003805.htm    
                                Description: A neck x-ray is an imaging test to look at cervical vertebrae. These are the 7 bones of the spine in the neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neck x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003805.htm

# Neck x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A neck x-ray is an imaging test to look at cervical vertebrae. These are the 7
bones of the spine in the neck.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in a hospital radiology department. It may also be done in
the health care provider's office by an x-ray technologist.

You will lie on the x-ray table.

You will be asked to change positions so that more images can be taken.
Usually 2, or up to 7 different images may be needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider if you are or think you may be pregnant. Also tell your
provider if you have had surgery or have implants around your neck, jaw, or
mouth.

Remove all jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

When the x-rays are taken, there is no discomfort. If the x-rays are done to
check for injury, there may be discomfort as your neck is being positioned.
Care will be taken to prevent further injury.

## Why the Test is Performed

The x-ray is used to evaluate neck injuries and numbness, pain, or weakness
that does not go away. A neck x-ray can also be used to help see if air
passages are blocked by swelling in the neck or something stuck in the airway.

Other tests, such as MRI, may be used to look for disk or nerve problems.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A neck x-ray can detect:

      * Bone joint that is out of position (dislocation)
      * Breathing in a foreign object
      * Broken bone (fracture)
      * Disk problems (disks are the cushion-like tissue that separate the vertebrae)
      * Extra bone growths (bone spurs) on the neck bones (for example, due to osteoarthritis)
      * Infection that causes swelling of the vocal cords (croup)
      * Inflammation of the tissue that covers the windpipe (epiglottitis)
      * Problem with the curve of the upper spine, such as kyphosis
      * Thinning of the bone (osteoporosis)
      * Wearing away of the neck vertebrae or cartilage 

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored so that the lowest
amount of radiation is used to produce the image.

Pregnant women and children are more sensitive to the risks of x-rays.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - neck; Cervical spine x-ray; Lateral neck x-ray

## Images

      * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
      * ![Vertebra, cervical \(neck\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1772t.jpg)Vertebra, cervical (neck)
      * ![Cervical vertebrae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9535t.jpg)Cervical vertebrae

## References

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

Van Thielen T, van den Hauwe L, Van Goethem JW, Parizel PM. Imaging techniques
and anatomy. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone: 2015:chap 54.

## Review Date 9/7/2017

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

