Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007351.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the cervical spine makes cross-sectional pictures of the neck. It uses x-rays to create the images.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervical spine CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007351.htm

# Cervical spine CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the cervical spine makes cross-sectional
pictures of the neck. It uses x-rays to create the images.

## How the Test is Performed

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the CT scanner.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
(Modern "spiral" scanners can perform the exam without stopping.)

A computer creates separate images of the body area, called slices. These
images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Three-
dimensional models of the cervical spine can be created by adding the slices
together.

You must be still during the exam. Movement can cause blurred images. You may
need to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan takes 10 to 15 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some exams use a special dye, called contrast that is put into your body
before the test starts. Contrast helps certain areas show up better on the
x-rays.

Contrast can be given in different ways:

      * It may be given through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm.
      * It may be given as an injection into the space around the spinal cord.

If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4
to 6 hours before the test.

Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to
contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test to avoid this
problem.

Before having the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes
medicine metformin (Glucophage). You may need to take extra steps before the
test if you take this drug.

Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working parts. Find out if
the CT machine has a weight limit if you weigh more than 300 pounds (135
kilograms).

You will wear a hospital gown during the study. You will need to take off all
jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a slight burning feeling, a metal taste
in the mouth, and a warm flushing of the body. These feelings are normal and
go away in a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT makes detailed pictures of the body very quickly. The test may help look
for:

      * Birth defects of the cervical spine in children
      * Spine problems, when a spine MRI cannot be used
      * Injury to the upper spine
      * Bone tumors and cancers
      * Broken bone
      * Disk herniations and compression of the spinal cord
      * Healing problems or scar tissue following surgery

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if the cervical spine looks OK.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Degenerative changes due to age
      * Birth defects of the cervical spine
      * Bone problems
      * Fracture
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Disk herniation
      * Healing problems or growth of scar tissue after surgery

## Risks

Risks for CT scans include:

      * Being exposed to radiation
      * Allergic reaction to contrast dye
      * Birth defect if done during pregnancy

CT scans expose you to more radiation than regular x-rays. Having many x-rays
or CT scans over time may raise your risk for cancer, but the risk from any
one scan is small. Talk to your provider about this risk and how it weighs
against the benefits of the test.

Some people have allergies to contrast dye. Let your provider know if you have
ever had an allergic reaction to injected contrast dye.

      * The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. If a person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives may occur.
      * If you must have this type of contrast, you may get antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
      * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. People with kidney disease or diabetes may need to get extra fluids after the test to help flush the iodine out of the body.

Rarely, the dye may cause a life-threatening allergic response called
anaphylaxis. If you have any trouble breathing during the test, you should
notify the scanner operator immediately. Scanners come with an intercom and
speakers, so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan of cervical spine; Computed axial tomography scan of cervical spine;
Computed tomography scan of cervical spine; CT scan of cervical spine; Neck CT
scan

## References

Even JL, Eskander MS, Donaldson WF. Cervical spine injuries. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 126.

Shaw AS, Prokop M. Computed tomography. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 4.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

Williams KD. Fractures, dislocations, and fracture-dislocations of the spine.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

