Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007675.htm    
                                Description: CT angiography combines a CT scan with the injection of dye. This technique is able to create pictures of the blood vessels in the arms or legs. CT stands for computed tomography.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CT angiography - arms and legs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007675.htm

# CT angiography - arms and legs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CT angiography combines a CT scan with the injection of dye. This technique is
able to create pictures of the blood vessels in the arms or legs. CT stands
for computed tomography.

## How the Test is Performed

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the CT scanner.

When you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
Modern "spiral" scanners can perform the exam without stopping.

A computer makesÂ multiple images of the body area, called slices. These
images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Models of the
body area in three-dimension can be created by adding the slices together.

You must stay still during the exam, because movement blurs the pictures. You
may have to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan should take only about 5 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some exams require a special dye, called contrast, to be injected into your
body before the test. Contrast helps certain areas show up better on the
x-rays.

      * Contrast can be given through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. If contrast is used, you also may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.
      * Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test to avoid this problem.
      * Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage). You may need to take extra steps if you are taking this medicine.

The contrast can worsen kidney function problems in people with poorly
functioning kidneys. Talk to your provider if you have a history of kidney
problems.

Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working parts. If you weigh
more than 300 pounds (135 kilograms), talk to your doctor about the weight
limit before the test.

You will need to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the CT exam.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may be uncomfortable lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a:

      * Slight burning feeling
      * Metallic taste in your mouth
      * Warm flushing of your body

These feelings are normal and usually go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have symptoms of a narrowed or blocked blood
vessel in the arms, hands, legs, or feet.

The test may also be done to diagnose:

      * Abnormal widening or ballooning of part of an artery (aneurysm)
      * Bleeding
      * Swelling or inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis)
      * Leg pain during walking or exercise (claudication)

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if no problems are seen.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result is commonly due to narrowing and hardening of the arteries
in the arms or legs from plaque buildup in the artery walls.

The x-ray may show a blockage in the vessels caused by:

      * Abnormal widening or ballooning of part of an artery (aneurysm) 
      * Blood clots
      * Other diseases of the arteries

Abnormal results may also be due to:

      * Inflammation of the blood vessels
      * Injury to the blood vessels
      * Buerger disease (thromboangiitis obliterans), a rare disease in which blood vessels of the hands and feet become blocked   

## Risks

Risks of CT scans include:

      * Exposure to radiation
      * Allergy to contrast dye
      * Damage to the kidneys from the contrast dye

CT scans give off more radiation than regular x-rays.Â Having many x-rays or
CT scans over time may increase your risk for cancer. However, the risk from
any one scan is small. You and your provider should discuss this risk compared
with the value of an accurate diagnosis for the problem. Most modern scanners
use techniques to use less radiation.

Let your provider know if you have ever had an allergic reaction to injected
contrast dye.

      * The most common type of contrast contains iodine. If you have an iodine allergy, you may have nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives if you get this type of contrast.
      * If you need to have this kind of contrast, your provider may give you antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
      * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. You may need extra fluids after the test to help rid your body of the iodine if you have kidney disease or diabetes.

Rarely, the dye may cause a serious allergic response called anaphylaxis. This
can be life-threatening. Notify the scanner operator right away if you have
any trouble breathing during the test. Scanners have an intercom and speakers
so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

Computed tomography angiography - peripheral; CTA - peripheral; CTA - Runoff;
PAD - CT angiography; Peripheral artery disease - CT angiography; PVD - CT
angiography

## Images

      * ![CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1088t.jpg)CT scan

## References

Jackson JE, Meaney JF. Angiography: principles, techniques, and complications.
In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger &
Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 84.

Kauvar DS, Kraiss LW. Vascular trauma: extremity. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA,
eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 184.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI,
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 2.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

