Link: https://medlineplus.gov/indigestion.html    
                                Description: If you&#39;ve ever overindulged in a favorite dish, you&#39;ve probably experienced indigestion (dyspepsia). Read about causes and therapies here.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Indigestion

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/indigestion.html

#  Indigestion

Also called: Dyspepsia, Upset stomach

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Nearly everyone has had indigestion at one time. It's a feeling of discomfort
or a burning feeling in your upper abdomen. You may have heartburn or belch
and feel bloated. You may also feel nauseated, or even throw up.

You might get indigestion from eating too much or too fast, eating high-fat
foods, or eating when you're stressed. Smoking, drinking too much alcohol,
using some medicines, being tired, and having ongoing stress can also cause
indigestion or make it worse. Sometimes the cause is a problem with the
digestive tract, like an ulcer or GERD.

Avoiding foods and situations that seem to cause it may help. Because
indigestion can be a sign of a more serious problem, see your health care
provider if it lasts for more than two weeks or if you have severe pain or
other symptoms. Your health care provider may use x-rays, lab tests, and an
upper endoscopy to diagnose the cause. You may need medicines to treat the
symptoms.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Indigestion ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Indigestion (Dyspepsia) (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Chamomile ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Peppermint Oil ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Sage ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Related Issues

    * Belching, Bloating and Flatulence (American College of Gastroenterology) Also in Spanish
    * Confusing or Ambiguous Upper Gut Symptoms (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)

## Specifics

    * Functional Dyspepsia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dyspepsia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Efficacy of prebiotics and probiotics for functional dyspepsia: A systematic review...
    * Article: Peculiarities of psychological status in patients with functional dyspepsia: postprandial distress...
    * Article: Current and emerging therapeutic options for the management of functional dyspepsia.
    * Indigestion -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Your Digestive System and How It Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * American College of Gastroenterology
    * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Indigestion (For Children) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Indigestion (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Indigestion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Taking antacids (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Indigestion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Indigestion.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Indigestion
    * Taking antacids

## Related Health Topics

    * Abdominal Pain
    * Digestive Diseases
    * Gas
    * GERD
    * Heartburn

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Indigestion is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

