Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003785.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the orbit is an imaging method. It uses x-rays to create detailed pictures of the eye sockets (orbits), eyes and surrounding bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Orbit CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003785.htm

# Orbit CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the orbit is an imaging method. It uses
x-rays to create detailed pictures of the eye sockets (orbits), eyes and
surrounding bones.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the
CT scanner. Only your head is placed inside the CT scanner.

You may be allowed to rest your head on a pillow.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you
but you won't see the x-ray.

A computer creates separate images of the body area, called slices. These
images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. The computer
can create three-dimensional models of the body area by stacking the slices
together.

You must lie still during the exam, because movement causes blurred images.
You may be asked to hold your breath for short periods.

The actual scan takes about 30 seconds. The entire process takes about 15
minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before the test:

      * You will be asked to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the study.
      * If you weigh more than 300 pounds (135 kilograms), find out if the CT machine has a weight limit. Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working parts.

Certain exams require a special dye, called contrast, to be delivered into the
body before the test starts. Contrast helps certain areas show up better on
the x-rays. Contrast can be given through a vein (intravenous- IV) in your
hand or forearm.

Before the scan using contrast, it is important to know the following:

      * You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.
      * Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test in order to safely receive this substance.
      * Tell your provider if you take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage). You may need to take extra precautions.
      * Let your provider know if you have poor kidney function. This is because the contrast can worsen the kidney function.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a slight burning sensation. You may
also have a metallic taste in the mouth and a warm flushing of the body. These
sensations are normal and most often go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is helpful for diagnosing diseases that affect the following areas
around the eyes:

      * Blood vessels
      * Eye muscles
      * Nerves supplying the eyes (optic nerves)
      * Sinuses 

An orbit CT scan may also be used to detect:

      * Abscess (infection) of the eye area
      * Broken eye socket bone
      * Foreign object in the eye socket 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean:

      * Bleeding
      * Broken eye socket bone
      * Graves disease
      * Infection
      * Tumor

## Risks

CT scans and other x-rays are strictly monitored and controlled to make sure
they use the least amount of radiation. The risk associated with any
individual scan is very low. The risk increases as more studies are done.

CT scans are done when the benefits greatly outweigh the risks. For example,
it can be more risky not to have the exam, especially if your provider thinks
you might have cancer.

The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine.

      * If a person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, nausea, sneezing, vomiting, itching, or hives may occur.
      * If you have a known allergy to contrast but need it for a successful exam, you may receive antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test. 

The kidneys help filter the iodine out of the body. If you have kidney disease
or diabetes, you should be closely monitored for kidney problems after
contrast is given. If you have diabetes or have kidney disease, talk to your
provider before the test to know your risks.

Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes
medicine metformin (Glucophage) because you may need to take extra
precautions. You may need to stop the medicine for 48 hours after the test.

In rare cases, the dye can cause a life-threatening allergic response called
anaphylaxis. If you have any trouble breathing during the test, tell the
scanner operator right away. Scanners come with an intercom and speakers, so
the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

CT scan - orbital; Eye CT scan; Computed tomography scan - orbit

## Images

      * ![CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1088t.jpg)CT scan

## References

Bowling B. Orbit. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cerebral computed tomography-diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:310-312.

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Poon CS, Abrahams M, Abrahams JJ. Orbit. In: Haaga JR, Boll DT, eds. _CT and
MRI of the Whole Body_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

## Review Date 12/23/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

