Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000765.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced tremor is involuntary shaking due to the use of medicines. Involuntary means you shake without trying to do so and can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced tremor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000765.htm

# Drug-induced tremor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced tremor is involuntary shaking due to the use of medicines.
Involuntary means you shake without trying to do so and can't stop when you
try. The shaking occurs when you move or try to hold your arms, hands, or head
in a certain position. It is not associated with other symptoms.

## Causes

Drug-induced tremor is a simple nervous system and muscle response to certain
medicines. Drugs that can cause tremor include the following:

      * Cancer medicines such as thalidomide and cytarabine
      * Seizure medicines such as valproic acid (Depakote) and sodium valproate (Depakene)
      * Asthma medicines such as theophylline and albuterol
      * Immune suppressing medicines such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus
      * Mood stabilizers such as lithium carbonate
      * Stimulants such as caffeine and amphetamines
      * Antidepressant drugs such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and tricyclics
      * Heart medicines such as amiodarone, procainamide, and others
      * Certain antibiotics
      * Certain antivirals, such as acyclovir and vidarabine
      * Alcohol
      * Nicotine
      * Certain high blood pressure drugs
      * Epinephrine and norepinephrine
      * Weight loss medicine (tiratricol)
      * Too much thyroid medicine (levothyroxine)
      * Tetrabenazine, a medicine to treat excessive movement disorder 

## Symptoms

The tremor may affect the hands, arms, head, or eyelids. In rare cases, the
lower body is affected. The tremor may not affect both sides of the body
equally.

The shaking is usually fast, about 4 to 12 movements per second.

The tremor may be:

      * Episodic (occurring in bursts, sometimes about an hour after taking the medicine)
      * Intermittent (comes and goes with activity, but not always)
      * Sporadic (happens on occasion) 

The tremor can:

      * Occur either with movement or at rest
      * Disappear during sleep
      * Get worse with voluntary movement and emotional stress 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Head nodding
      * Shaking or quivering sound to the voice 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can make the diagnosis by performing a physical exam
and asking about your medical and personal history. You will also be asked
about the medicines you take.

Tests may be done to rule out other reasons for the tremor. A tremor that
occurs when the muscles are relaxed or that affects the legs or coordination
may be a sign of another condition, such as Parkinson disease. The speed of
the tremor can be an important way to determine its cause.

Other causes of tremors may include:

      * Alcohol withdrawal
      * Cigarette smoking
      * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)
      * Parkinson disease
      * Adrenal gland tumor (pheochromocytoma)
      * Too much caffeine
      * Disorder in which there is too much copper in the body (Wilson disease)

Blood tests and imaging studies (such as a CT scan of the head, brain MRI, and
x-rays) are usually normal.

## Treatment

Drug-induced tremor often goes away when you stop taking the medicine that is
causing the shaking.

You may not need treatment or changes in the medicine if the tremor is mild
and does not interfere with your daily activity.

If the benefit of the medicine is greater than the problems caused by the
tremor, your provider may have you try different dosages of the medicine. Or,
you may be prescribed another medicine to treat your condition. In rare cases,
a drug such as propranolol may be added to help control the tremor.

Do not stop taking any medicine without first talking to your provider.

## Possible Complications

Severe tremor can interfere with daily activities, especially fine motor
skills such as writing, and other activities such as eating or drinking.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are taking a medicine and a tremor develops that
interferes with your activity or is accompanied by other symptoms.

## Prevention

Always tell your provider about the medicines you take. Ask your provider if
it is OK to take over-the-counter medicines that contain stimulants or
theophylline. Theophylline is a drug used to treat wheezing and shortness of
breath.

Caffeine can cause tremor and make tremor caused by other medicines worse. If
you have a tremor, avoid caffeinated drinks such as coffee, tea, and soda.
Also avoid other stimulants.

## Alternative Names

Tremor - drug-induced; Shaking - drug tremor

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

O'Connor KDJ, Mastaglia FL. Drug-induced disorders of the nervous system. In:
Aminoff MJ, Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General Medicine_. 5th
ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2014:chap 32.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

