Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000293.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced diarrhea is loose, watery stools that occurs when you take certain medicines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced diarrhea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000293.htm

# Drug-induced diarrhea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced diarrhea is loose, watery stools that occurs when you take
certain medicines.

## Causes

Nearly all medicines may cause diarrhea as a side effect. The drugs listed
below, however, are more likely to cause diarrhea.

Laxatives are meant to cause diarrhea.

      * They work either by drawing water into the gut or by causing the muscles of the intestines to contract.
      * However, taking too much of a laxative can cause diarrhea that is a problem. 

Antacids that have magnesium in them may also cause diarrhea or make it worse.

Antibiotics also can produce diarrhea.

      * Normally, the intestines have many different bacteria. They keep each other in balance. Antibiotics destroy some of these bacteria, which allow other types to grow too much.
      * In some cases, antibiotics can allow a type of bacteria called _Clostridioides difficile_ to grow too much. This can lead to severe, watery, and often bloody diarrhea called pseudomembranous colitis. 

Many other drugs may cause diarrhea:

      * Chemotherapy medicines used to treat cancer.
      * Drugs used to treat heartburn and stomach ulcers, such as omeprazole (Prilosec), esomeprazole (Nexium), lansoprazole (Prevacid), rabeprazole (AcipHex), pantoprazole (Protonix), cimetidine (Tagamet), ranitidine (Zantac), and nizatidine (Axid). This is uncommon.
      * Medicines that suppress the immune system (such as mycophenolate).
      * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) used to treat pain and arthritis, such as ibuprofen and naproxen.
      * Metformin used to treat diabetes.

Some herbal teas contain senna or other "natural" laxatives that can cause
diarrhea. Other vitamins, minerals, or supplements may also cause diarrhea.

## Prevention

To prevent diarrhea due to antibiotic use, talk to your health care provider
about taking supplements containing healthy bacteria (probiotics) and/or
eating yogurt. Some of these products may reduce the risk for diarrhea. Keep
taking these supplements for a few days after you finish your antibiotics.

## Alternative Names

Diarrhea associated with medicines

## Patient Instructions

      * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Diarrhea. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds. _Differential
Diagnosis of Common Complaint_ s. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2012:chap 10.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 12/17/2019.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

