Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000883.htm    
                                Description: If you take more than one medicine, it is important to take them carefully and safely. Some medicines can interact and cause side effects. It can also be hard to keep track of when and how to take each    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking multiple medicines safely

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000883.htm

# Taking multiple medicines safely

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you take more than one medicine, it is important to take them carefully and
safely. Some medicines can interact and cause side effects. It can also be
hard to keep track of when and how to take each medicine.

Here are tips to help you keep track of your medicines and take them as
directed.

## Why you may Need More Than one Medicine

You may take more than one medicine to treat a single condition. You may also
take different medicines to treat more than one health problem. For example,
you may take a statin to lower your cholesterol, and a beta-blocker to control
your blood pressure.

Older adults often have more than one health condition. So they are more
likely to take several medicines.

## Risks of Taking Multiple Medicines

The more medicines you take, the more you need to use them carefully. There
are several risks when taking multiple medicines.

      * You may be more likely to have side effects. Because most medicines can have side effects, the more medicines you take, the more likely you will have side effects. Taking certain medicines can also increase the risk for falls.
      * You are at higher risk for drug interactions. An interaction is when one medicine affects how another medicine works. For example, taken together, one medicine may make the other medicine stronger. Medicines can also interact with alcohol and even some foods. Some interactions can be serious, even life threatening.
      * You may find it hard to keep track of when to take each medicine. You even may forget which medicine you have taken at a certain time.
      * You may take a medicine you do not need. This may be more likely to happen if you see more than one health care provider. You may be prescribed different medicines for the same problem.

## People at Higher Risk

Certain people are more likely to have problems from taking multiple
medicines:

      *  **People who are prescribed 5 or more medicines.** The more medicines you take, the higher the chance of interactions or side effects. You may also find it hard to remember all possible drug interactions.
      *  **People who take medicines prescribed by more than one provider.** One provider may not know that you are taking medicines another provider has given you.
      *  **Older adults.** As you age, your body processes medicines differently. For instance, your kidneys may not work as well as they used to. This can mean that more medicine stays in your body for longer. This can lead to dangerous levels of medicines in your system.
      *  **People in the hospital.** When you are in the hospital, you will likely see new providers who are not familiar with your health history. Without this knowledge, they may prescribe a medicine that may interact with medicines you already take. 

## What you can do

These suggestions can help you take all of your medicines safely:

      * Keep a list of all medicines you take. Your list should include all prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. OTC medicines include vitamins, supplements, and herbal products. Keep a copy of the list in your wallet and at home.
      * Review your medicine list with your providers and pharmacists. Discuss the list with your provider each time you have an appointment. Ask your provider if you still need to take all of the medicines on your list. Also ask if any of the dosages should be changed. Make sure you give all of your providers a copy of your medicine list.
      * Ask questions about any new drugs you are prescribed. Make sure you understand how to take them. Also ask if a new medicine could interact with any of the medicines or supplements you are already taking.
      * Take your medicines exactly as your provider tells you. If you have questions about how or why to take your medicine, ask your provider. DO NOT skip doses, or stop taking your medicines.
      * If you notice side effects, tell your provider. DO NOT stop taking your medicines unless your provider tells you to.
      * Keep your medicines organized. There are many ways to keep track of your medicines. A pill organizer may help. Try one or more methods and see what works for you.
      * If you have a hospital stay, bring your medicine list with you. Talk with your provider about medicine safety while you are in the hospital.

## When to Call the Health Care Provider

Call if you have questions or you are confused about the directions for your
medicine. Call if you have any side effects from your medicines. DO NOT stop
taking any medicine unless your provider tells you to stop.

## Alternative Names

Polypharmacy

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. 20 tips to help prevent
medical errors: patient fact sheet. www.ahrq.gov/patients-consumers/care-
planning/errors/20tips/index.html. Updated August 2018. Accessed August 13,
2018.

National Institute on Aging website. www.nia.nih.gov/health/safe-use-
medicines-older-adults. Updated June 29, 2017. Accessed August 13, 2018.

Ryan R, Santesso N, Lowe D, et al. Interventions to improve safe and effective
medicines use by consumers: an overview of systematic reviews. _Cochrane
Database Syst Rev_. 2014;29(4):CD007768. PMID: 24777444
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24777444.

US Food & Drug Administration website. My medicine record.
www.fda.gov/Drugs/ResourcesForYou/ucm079489.htm. Updated August 26, 2013.
Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Drug Reactions

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

