Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003117.htm    
                                Description: Nausea is feeling an urge to vomit. It is often called &quot;being sick to your stomach.&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nausea and vomiting - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003117.htm

# Nausea and vomiting - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nausea is feeling an urge to vomit. It is often called "being sick to your
stomach."

Vomiting or throwing-up is forcing the contents of the stomach up through the
food pipe (esophagus) and out of the mouth.

## Causes

Common problems that may cause nausea and vomiting include:

      * Food allergies
      * Infections of the stomach or bowels, such as the "stomach flu" or food poisoning
      * Leaking of stomach contents (food or liquid) upward (also called gastroesophageal refluxÂ or GERD)
      * Medicines or medical treatments, such as cancer chemotherapy or radiation treatment
      * Migraine headaches
      * Morning sickness during pregnancy
      * Seasickness or motion sickness
      * Severe pain, such as with kidney stones

Nausea and vomiting may also be early warning signs of more serious medical
problems, such as:

      * Appendicitis
      * Blockage in the intestines
      * Cancer or a tumor
      * Ingesting a drug or poison, especially by children
      * Ulcers in the lining of the stomach or small intestine

## Home Care

Once you and your health care provider find the cause, you will want to know
how to treat your nausea or vomiting.

You mayÂ need to:

      * Take medicine.
      * Change your diet, or try other things to make you feel better.
      * Drink small amounts of clear liquidsÂ often.

If you have morning sickness during pregnancy, ask your provider about
possible treatments.

The following may help treat motion sickness:

      * Remaining still.
      * Taking over-the-counter antihistamines, such as dimenhydrinate (Dramamine).
      * Using scopolamine prescription skin patches (such as Transderm Scop). These are helpful for extended trips, such as an ocean voyage. Use the patch as your provider instructs. Scopolamine is for adults only. It should NOT be given to children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or go to an emergency room if you:

      * Think the vomiting is from poisoning
      * Notice blood or dark, coffee-colored material in the vomit

Call a provider right away or seek medical care if you or another person has:

      * Been vomiting for longer than 24 hours
      * Been unable to keep any fluids down for 12 hours or more
      * Headache or stiff neck
      * Not urinated for 8 or more hours
      * Severe stomach or belly pain
      * Vomited 3 or more times in 1 day

Signs of dehydration include:

      * Crying without tears
      * Dry mouth
      * Increased thirst
      * Eyes that appear sunken
      * Skin changes: For example, if you touch or squeeze the skin, it doesn't bounce back the way it usually does
      * Urinating less often or having dark yellow urine

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and will look for signs of
dehydration.

Your provider will ask questions about your symptoms, such as:

      * When did the vomiting begin? How long has it lasted? How often does it occur?
      * Does it occur after you eat, or on an empty stomach?
      * Are other symptoms present such as abdominal pain, fever, diarrhea, or headaches?
      * Are you vomiting blood?
      * Are you vomiting anything that looks like coffee grounds?
      * Are you vomiting undigested food?
      * When was the last time you urinated?

Other questions you may be asked include:

      * Have you been losing weight?
      * Have you been traveling? Where?
      * What medicines do you take?
      * Did other people who ate at the same place as you have the same symptoms?
      * Are you pregnant or could you be pregnant?

Diagnostic tests that may be performed include:

      * Blood tests (such as CBC with differential, blood electrolyte levels, and liver function tests)
      * Urinalysis
      * Imaging studies (ultrasound or CT) of the abdomen

Depending on the cause and how much extra fluids you need, you may have to
stay in the hospital or clinic for a period of time. You may need fluids given
through your veins (intravenous or IV).

## Alternative Names

Emesis; Vomiting; Stomach upset; Upset stomach; Queasiness

## Patient Instructions

      * Clear liquid diet
      * Full liquid diet

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Crane BT, Eggers SDZ, Zee DS. Central vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 166.

Guttman J. Nausea and vomiting. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gaushe-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

## Review Date 7/11/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Nausea and
Vomiting](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NauseaandVomiting_thumb.jpg)Nausea
and Vomiting _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

