Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000819.htm    
                                Description: Drug allergies are a group of symptoms caused by an allergic reaction to a drug (medicine).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug allergies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000819.htm

# Drug allergies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug allergies are a group of symptoms caused by an allergic reaction to a
drug (medicine).

## Causes

A drug allergy involves an immune response in the body that produces an
allergic reaction to a medicine.

The first time you take the medicine, you may have no problems. But, your
body's immune system may produce a substance (antibody) against that drug. The
next time you take the drug, the antibody may tell your white blood cells to
make a chemical called histamine. Histamines and other chemicals cause your
allergy symptoms.

Common allergy-causing drugs include:

      * Drugs used to treat seizures
      * Insulin (especially animal sources of insulin)
      * Substances containing iodine, such as x-ray contrast dyes (these can cause allergy-like reactions)
      * Penicillin and related antibiotics
      * Sulfa drugs

Most side effects of drugs are not due to an allergic reaction. For example,
aspirin can cause hives or trigger asthma without involving the immune system.
Many people confuse an unpleasant, but not serious, side effect of a medicine
(such as nausea) with a drug allergy.

## Symptoms

Most drug allergies cause minor skin rashes and hives. These symptoms may
occur right away or hours after receiving the drug. Serum sickness is a
delayed type of drug allergy that occurs a week or more after you are exposed
to a medicine or vaccine.

Common symptoms of a drug allergy include:

      * Hives
      * Itching of the skin or eyes (common)
      * Skin rash (common)
      * Swelling of the lips, tongue, or face
      * Wheezing

Symptoms of anaphylaxis include:

      * Abdominal pain or cramping
      * Confusion
      * Diarrhea
      * Difficulty breathing with wheezing or hoarse voice
      * Dizziness
      * Fainting, lightheadedness
      * Hives over different parts of the body
      * Nausea, vomiting
      * Rapid pulse
      * Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations) 

## Exams and Tests

An examination may show:

      * Decreased blood pressure
      * Hives
      * Rash
      * Swelling of the lips, face, or tongue (angioedema) 
      * Wheezing

Skin testing may help diagnose an allergy to penicillin-type medicines. There
are no good skin or blood tests to help diagnose other drug allergies.

If you have had allergy-like symptoms after taking a medicine or receiving
contrast (dye) before getting an x-ray, your health care provider will often
tell you that this is proof of a drug allergy. You do not need more testing.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and prevent a severe reaction.

Treatment may include:

      * Antihistamines to relieve mild symptoms such as rash, hives, and itching
      * Bronchodilators such as albuterol to reduce asthma-like symptoms (moderate wheezing or cough)
      * Corticosteroids applied to the skin, given by mouth, or given through a vein (intravenously)
      * Epinephrine by injection to treat anaphylaxis

The offending medicine and similar drugs should be avoided. Make sure all your
providers -- including dentists and hospital staff -- know about any drug
allergies that you or your children have.

In some cases, a penicillin (or other drug) allergy responds to
desensitization. This treatment involves being given very small doses at
first, followed by larger and larger doses of a medicine to improve your
tolerance of the drug. This process should be done only by an allergist, when
there is no alternative drug for you to take.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most drug allergies respond to treatment. But sometimes, they can lead to
severe asthma, anaphylaxis, or death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are taking a medicine and seem to be having a
reaction to it.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have difficulty breathing or develop other symptoms of severe asthma or
anaphylaxis. These are emergency conditions.

## Prevention

There is generally no way to prevent a drug allergy.

If you have a known drug allergy, avoiding the drug is the best way to prevent
an allergic reaction. You may also be told to avoid similar medicines.

In some cases, a provider may approve the use of a drug that causes an allergy
if you are first treated with medicines that slow or block the immune
response. These include corticosteroids (such as prednisone) and
antihistamines. Do not try this without a provider's supervision. Pretreatment
with corticosteroids and antihistamines has been shown to prevent allergic
reactions in people who need to get x-ray contrast dye.

Your provider may also recommend desensitization.

## Alternative Names

Allergic reaction - drug (medication); Drug hypersensitivity; Medication
hypersensitivity

## Images

      * ![Anaphylaxis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19320t.jpg)Anaphylaxis
      * ![Hives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19325t.jpg)Hives
      * ![Allergic reactions to medication](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19329t.jpg)Allergic reactions to medication
      * ![Dermatitis - contact](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2387t.jpg)Dermatitis - contact
      * ![Dermatitis - pustular contact](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2397t.jpg)Dermatitis - pustular contact
      * ![Drug rash - Tegretol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2406t.jpg)Drug rash - Tegretol
      * ![Fixed drug eruption](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2421t.jpg)Fixed drug eruption
      * ![Fixed drug eruption - bullous](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2422t.jpg)Fixed drug eruption - bullous
      * ![Fixed drug eruption on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2713t.jpg)Fixed drug eruption on the cheek
      * ![Drug rash on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2935t.jpg)Drug rash on the back
      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Barksdale AN, Muelleman RL. Allergy, hypersensitivity, and anaphylaxis. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
109.

Ãelik GE, Pichler WJ, Adkinson NF Jr. Drug allergy. In: Adkinson NF Jr,
Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 79.

Grammer LC. Drug allergy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 254.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

