Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007398.htm    
                                Description: Laryngectomy is surgery to remove all or part of the larynx (voice box).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laryngectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007398.htm

# Laryngectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laryngectomy is surgery to remove all or part of the larynx (voice box).

## Description

Laryngectomy is major surgery that is done in the hospital. Before surgery you
will receive general anesthesia. You will be asleep and pain-free.

Total laryngectomy removes the whole larynx. Part of your pharynx may be taken
out as well. Your pharynx is the mucous membrane-lined passage between your
nasal passages and esophagus.

      * The surgeon will make a cut in your neck to open up the area. Care is taken to preserve major blood vessels and other important structures.
      * The larynx and tissue around it will be removed. The lymph nodes may also be removed.
      * The surgeon will then make an opening in your trachea and a hole in front of your neck. Your trachea will be attached to this hole. The hole is called a stoma. After surgery you will breathe through your stoma. It will never be removed.
      * Your esophagus, muscles, and skin will be closed with stitches or clips. You may have tubes coming from your wound for a while after surgery. 

The surgeon may also do a tracheoesophaheal puncture (TEP).

      * A TEP is a small hole in your windpipe (trachea) and the tube that moves food from your throat to your stomach (esophagus).
      * Your surgeon will place a small man-made part (prosthesis) into this opening. The prosthesis will allow you to speak after your voice box has been removed. 

There are many less invasive surgeries to remove part of the larynx.

      * The names of some of these procedures are endoscopic (or transoral resection), vertical partial laryngectomy, horizontal or supraglottic partial laryngectomy, and supracricoid partial laryngectomy.
      * These procedures may work for some people. The surgery you have depends on how much your cancer has spread and what type of cancer you have. 

The surgery can take 5 to 9 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Most often, laryngectomy is done to treat cancer of the larynx. It is also
done to treat:

      * Severe trauma, such as a gunshot wound or other injury.
      * Severe damage to the larynx from radiation treatment. This is called radiation necrosis. 

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Heart problems
      * Bleeding
      * Infection

Risks for this surgery are:

      * Hematoma (a buildup of blood outside the blood vessels)
      * Wound infection
      * Fistulas (tissue connections that form between the pharynx and the skin that are not normally there)
      * The stoma opening may become too small or tight. This is called stomal stenosis.
      * Leaking around the tracheoesophageal puncture (TEP) and prosthesis
      * Damage to other areas of the esophagus or trachea
      * Problems swallowing and eating
      * Problems speaking

## Before the Procedure

You will have medical visits and tests before you have surgery. Some of these
are:

      * A complete physical exam and blood tests. Imaging studies may be performed.
      * A visit with a speech therapist and a swallowing therapist to prepare for changes after surgery.
      * Nutritional counseling.
      * Stop-smoking - counseling. If you are a smoker and have not quit. 

Always tell your health care provider:

      * If you are or could be pregnant
      * What medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription
      * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day 

During the days before your surgery:

      * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot.
      * Ask which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * You will be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery.
      * Take the drugs your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will need to stay in the hospital for several days after surgery.

After the procedure, you will be groggy and will not be able to speak. An
oxygen mask will be on your stoma. It's important to keep your head raised,
rest a lot, and move your legs from time to time to improve blood flow.
Keeping blood moving reduces your risk of getting a blood clot.

You can use warm compresses to reduce pain around your incisions. You will get
pain medicine.

You will receive nutrition through an IV (a tube that goes into a vein) and
tube feedings. Tube feedings are given through a tube that goes through your
nose and into your esophagus (feeding tube).

You may be allowed to swallow food as soon as 2 to 3 days after surgery.
However, it is more common to wait 5 to 7 days after your surgery to start
eating through your mouth. You may have a swallow study, in which an x-ray is
taken while you drink contrast material. This is done to make sure there is no
leakage prior to starting to eat.

Your drain may be removed in 2 to 3 days. You will be taught how to care for
your laryngectomy tube and stoma. You will learn how to safely shower. You
must be careful not to let water enter through your stoma.

Speech rehabilitation with a speech therapist will help you relearn how to
speak.

You will need to avoid heavy lifting or strenuous activity for about 6 weeks.
You may slowly resume your normal, light activities.

Follow up with your provider as you are told.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your wounds will take about 2 to 3 weeks to heal. You can expect full recovery
in about a month. Many times, removal of the larynx will take out all the
cancer or injured material. People learn how to change their lifestyle and
live without their voice box. You may need other treatments, such as
radiotherapy or chemotherapy.

## Alternative Names

Complete laryngectomy; Partial laryngectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Swallowing problems 

## References

Lorenz RR, Couch ME, Burkey BB. Head and neck. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 33.

Posner MR. Head and neck cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 190.

Rassekh H, Haughey BH. Total Laryngectomy and laryngopharyngectomy. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 110.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Throat Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatCancer_thumb.jpg)Throat
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

