Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001042.htm    
                                Description: Throat cancer is cancer of the vocal cords, larynx (voice box), or other areas of the throat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Throat or larynx cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001042.htm

# Throat or larynx cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Throat cancer is cancer of the vocal cords, larynx (voice box), or other areas
of the throat.

## Causes

People who smoke or use tobacco are at risk of developing throat cancer.
Drinking too much alcohol over a long time also increases risk. Smoking and
drinking alcohol combined lead to an increased risk for throat cancer.

Most throat cancers develop in adults older than 50. Men are more likely than
women to develop throat cancer.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection (the same virus that causes genital
warts) account for a larger number of oral cancers than in the past. One type
of HPV, type 16 or HPV-16, is much more commonly associated with almost all
oral cancers.

![Cancer of the throat or
larynx](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200044t.gif)Watch this video
about:Cancer of the throat or larynx

## Symptoms

Symptoms of throat cancer include any of the following:

      * Abnormal (high-pitched) breathing sounds
      * Cough
      * Coughing up blood
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Hoarseness that does not get better in 3 to 4 weeks
      * Neck or ear pain
      * Sore throat that does not get better in 2 to 3 weeks, even with antibiotics
      * Swelling or lumps in the neck
      * Weight loss not due to dieting 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show a lump on
the outside of the neck.

The provider may look in your throat or nose using a flexible tube with a
small camera at the end.

Other tests that may be ordered include:

      * Biopsy of suspected tumor. This tissue will also be tested for HPV.
      * Chest x-ray.
      * CT scan of chest. 
      * CT scan of head and neck. 
      * MRI of the head or neck. 
      * PET scan. 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to completely remove the cancer and prevent it from
spreading to other parts of the body.

When the tumor is small, either surgery or radiation therapy alone can be used
to remove the tumor.

When the tumor is larger or has spread to lymph nodes in the neck, a
combination of radiation and chemotherapy is often used to save the voice box
(vocal cords). If this is not possible, the voice box is removed. This surgery
is called aÂ laryngectomy.

Depending on what type of treatment you require, supportive treatments that
may be needed include:

      * Speech therapy.
      * Therapy to help with chewing and swallowing.
      * Learning to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up. Ask your health care provider about liquid food supplements that can help.
      * Help with dry mouth.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Throat cancers may be cured when detected early. If the cancer has not spread
(metastasized) to surrounding tissues or lymph nodes in the neck, about one
half of patients can be cured. If the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes and
parts of the body outside the head and neck, the cancer is not curable.
Treatment is aimed at prolonging and improving quality of life.

It is possible but not fully proven that cancers which test positive for HPV
may have better outlooks. Also, people who smoked for less than 10 years may
do better.Â

After treatment, therapy is needed to help with speech and swallowing. If the
person is not able to swallow, a feeding tube will be needed.

The recurrence risk in throat cancer is highest during the first 2 to 3 years
of diagnosis.

Regular follow-up after the diagnosis and treatment is very important to
increase the chances of survival.

## Possible Complications

Complications of this type of cancer may include:

      * Airway obstruction
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Disfigurement of the neck or face
      * Hardening of the skin of the neck
      * Loss of voice and speaking ability
      * Spread of the cancer to other body areas (metastasis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of throat cancer, especially hoarseness or a change in voice with no obvious cause that lasts longer than 3 weeks
      * You find a lump in your neck that does not go away in 3 weeks

## Prevention

Do not smoke or use other tobacco. Limit or avoid alcohol use.

HPV vaccines recommended for children and young adults target HPV subtypes
most likely to cause some head and neck cancers. They have been shown to
prevent most oral HPV infections. It is not clear yet whether they also are
able to prevent throat or larynx cancers.

## Alternative Names

Vocal cord cancer; Throat cancer; Laryngeal cancer; Cancer of the glottis;
Cancer of oropharynx or hypopharynx; Cancer of the tonsils; Cancer of the base
of the tongue

## Patient Instructions

      * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
      * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
      * Swallowing problems 

## Images

      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
      * ![Oropharynx](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9555t.jpg)Oropharynx

## References

Armstrong WB, Vokes DE, Verma SP. Malignant tumors of the larynx. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 106.

Fakhry C, Gourin CG. Human papillomavirus and the epidemiology of head and
neck cancer. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 75.

Garden AS, Beadle BM, Morrison WH. Larynx and hypopharynx cancer. In:
Gunderson LL, Tepper JE, eds. _Clinical Radiation Oncology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

Lorenz RR, Couch ME, Burkey BB. Head and neck. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 33.

National Cancer Institute website. Nasopharyngeal cancer treatment (adult)
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/head-and-
neck/hp/adult/nasopharyngeal-treatment-pdq. Updated January 12, 2018. Accessed
January 31, 2018.

## Review Date 9/29/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Throat Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatCancer_thumb.jpg)Throat
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

