Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000778.htm    
                                Description: An acoustic neuroma is a slow-growing tumor of the nerve that connects the ear to the brain. This nerve is called the vestibular cochlear nerve. It is behind the ear, right under the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acoustic neuroma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000778.htm

# Acoustic neuroma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An acoustic neuroma is a slow-growing tumor of the nerve that connects the ear
to the brain. This nerve is called the vestibular cochlear nerve. It is behind
the ear, right under the brain.

An acoustic neuroma is benign. This means that it does not spread to other
parts of the body. However, it can damage several important nerves as it
grows.

## Causes

Acoustic neuromas have been linked with the genetic disorder neurofibromatosis
type 2 (NF2).

Acoustic neuromas are uncommon.

## Symptoms

The symptoms vary, based on the size and location of the tumor. Because the
tumor grows so slowly, symptoms most often start after age 30.

Common symptoms include:

      * Abnormal feeling of movement (vertigo) 
      * Hearing loss in the affected ear that makes it hard to hear conversations 
      * Ringing (tinnitus) in the affected ear 

Less common symptoms include:

      * Difficulty understanding speech
      * Dizziness
      * Headache
      * Loss of balance
      * Numbness in the face orÂ one ear
      * Pain in the face or one ear
      * Weakness of the face or facial asymmetry

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may suspect an acoustic neuroma based on your medical
history, an exam of your nervous system, or tests.

Often, the physical exam is normal when the tumor is diagnosed. Sometimes, the
following signs may be present:

      * Decreased feeling onÂ one side of the face
      * Drooping onÂ one side of the face
      * Unsteady walk

The most useful test to identify an acoustic neuroma is an MRI of the brain.
Other tests to diagnose the tumor and tell it apart from other causes of
dizziness or vertigo include:

      * Hearing test
      * Test of equilibrium and balance (electronystagmography)
      * Test of hearing and brainstem function (brainstem auditory evoked response)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size and location of the tumor, your age, and your
overall health. You and your provider must decide whether to watch the tumor
without treatment, use radiation to stop it from growing, or try to remove it.

Many acoustic neuromas are small and grow very slowly. Small tumors with few
or no symptoms may be watched for changes, especiallyÂ in older people.
Regular MRI scans will be done.

If not treated, some acoustic neuromas can:

      * Damage the nerves involved in hearing and balance
      * Place pressure on nearby brain tissue
      * Harm the nerves responsible for movement and feeling in the face
      * Lead to a buildup of fluid (hydrocephalus) in the brain (with very large tumors)

Removing an acoustic neuroma is more commonly done for:

      * Larger tumors
      * Tumors that are causing symptoms
      * Tumors that are growing quickly
      * Tumors that are pressing on the brain 

Surgery or a type of radiation treatment is done to remove the tumor and
prevent other nerve damage. Depending on the type of surgery performed,
hearing can sometimes be preserved.

      * The surgical technique to remove an acoustic neuroma is called microsurgery. A special microscope and small, precise instruments are used. This technique offers a higher chance of cure.
      * Stereotactic radiosurgery focuses high-powered x-rays on a small area. It is a form of radiation therapy, not a surgical procedure. It may be used to slow down or stop the growth of tumors that are hard to remove with surgery. It may also be done to treat people who are unable to have surgery, such as older adults or people who are very sick.

Removing an acoustic neuroma can damage nerves. This may cause loss of hearing
or weakness in the face muscles. This damage is more likely to occur when the
tumor is large.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An acoustic neuroma is not cancer. The tumor does not spread to other parts of
the body. However, it may continue to grow and press on structures in the
skull.

People with small, slow-growing tumors may not need treatment.

Hearing loss present before treatment is not likely to return after surgery or
radiosurgery.Â In casesÂ ofÂ smaller tumors, hearing loss that occurs after
surgery may return.

Most people with small tumors will have no permanent weakness of the face
after surgery. However, people with large tumors are more likely to have some
permanent weakness of the face after surgery.

Signs of nerve damage such as loss of hearing or weakness of the face may be
delayed after radiosurgery.

In most cases, brain surgery can completely remove the tumor.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Hearing loss that is sudden or getting worse
      * Ringing inÂ one ear
      * Dizziness (vertigo)

## Alternative Names

Vestibular schwannoma; Tumor - acoustic; Cerebellopontine angle tumor; Angle
tumor; Hearing loss - acoustic; Tinnitus - acoustic

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Arriaga MA, Brackmann DE. Neoplasms of the posterior fossa. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 177.

Baloh RW, Jen J. Hearing and equilibrium. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 428.

Welling DB, Spear SA, Packer MD. Stereotactic radiation treatment of benign
tumors of the cranial base. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds.
_Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 179.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acoustic
Neuroma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcousticNeuroma_thumb.jpg)Acoustic
Neuroma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

