Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007662.htm    
                                Description: The Epley maneuver is a series of head movements to relieve symptoms of benign positional vertigo. Benign positional vertigo is also called benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). BPPV is caused by    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epley maneuver

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007662.htm

# Epley maneuver

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Epley maneuver is a series of head movements to relieve symptoms of benign
positional vertigo. Benign positional vertigo is also called benign paroxysmal
positional vertigo (BPPV). BPPV is caused by a problem in the inner ear.
Vertigo is the feeling that you are spinning or that everything is spinning
around you.

## Description

BPPV occurs when small pieces of bone-like calcium (canaliths) break free and
float inside small canals in your inner ear. This sends confusing messages to
your brain about your body's position, which causes vertigo.

The Epley maneuver is used to move the canaliths out of the canals so they
stop causing symptoms.

To perform the maneuver, your health care provider will:

      * Turn your head toward the side that causes vertigo.
      * Quickly lay you down on your back with your head in the same position just off the edge of the table. You will likely feel more intense vertigo symptoms at this point.
      * Move your head to the opposite side.
      * Turn your body so that it is in line with your head. You will be lying on your side with your head and body facing to the side.
      * Sit you upright.

Your provider may need to repeat these steps a few times.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your provider will use this procedure to treat BPPV.

## Risks

During the procedure, you may experience:

      * Intense vertigo symptoms
      * Nausea
      * Vomiting (less common)

In a few people, the canaliths may move into another canal in the inner ear
and continue to cause vertigo.

## Before the Procedure

Tell your provider about any medical conditions that you may have. The
procedure may not be a good choice if you have had recent neck or spine
problems or a detached retina.

For severe vertigo, your provider may give you medicines to reduce nausea or
anxiety before starting the procedure.

## After the Procedure

The Epley maneuver often works quickly. For the rest of the day, avoid bending
over. For several days after treatment, avoid sleeping on the side that
triggers symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, treatment will cure BPPV. Sometimes, vertigo may return
after a few weeks. About half the time, BPPV will come back. If this happens,
you'll need to be treated again. Your provider may teach you how to perform
the maneuver at home.

Your provider may prescribe medicines that can help relieve spinning
sensations. However, these medicines often do not work well for treating
vertigo.

## Alternative Names

Canalith repositioning maneuvers (CRP); Canalith-repositioning maneuvers; CRP;
Benign positional vertigo - Epley; Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo -
Epley; BPPV - Epley; BPV - Epley

## References

Bhattacharyya N, Baugh RF, Orvidas L, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. _Otolaryngol: Head Neck Surg_.
2008;139(5 Suppl 4):S47-S81. PMID: 18973840
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18973840.

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings_ _Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

Sacco RR, Burmeister DB, Rupp VA, Greenberg MR. Management of benign
paroxysmal positional vertigo: a randomized controlled trial. _J Emerg Med_.
2014;46(4):575-581. PMID: 24462034 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24462034.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

