Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003448.htm    
                                Description: Electronystagmography is a test that looks at eye movements to see how well two nerves in the brain are working. These nerves are:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Electronystagmography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003448.htm

# Electronystagmography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Electronystagmography is a test that looks at eye movements to see how well
two nerves in the brain are working. These nerves are:

      * Vestibular nerve (eighth cranial nerve), which runs from the brain to the ears
      * Oculomotor nerve, which runs from the brain to the eyes

## How the Test is Performed

Patches called electrodes are placed above, below, and on each side of your
eyes. They may be sticky patches or attached to a headband. Another patch is
attached to the forehead.

The health care provider will spray cold water or air into each ear canal at
separate times. The patches record eye movements that occur when the inner ear
and nearby nerves are stimulated by the water or air. When cold water enters
the ear, you should have rapid, side-to-side eye movements called nystagmus.

Next, warm water or air is placed into the ear. The eyes should now move
rapidly toward the warm water then slowly away.

You may also be asked to use your eyes to track objects, such as flashing
lights or moving lines.

The test takes about 90 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, you do not need to take special steps before this test.

      * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
      * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel discomfort due to cold water in the ear. During the test, you may
have:

      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Brief dizziness (vertigo)

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to determine whether a balance or nerve disorder is the cause
of dizziness or vertigo.

You may have this test if you have:

      * Dizziness or vertigo
      * Hearing loss
      * Possible damage to the inner ear from certain medicines 

## Normal Results

Certain eye movements should occur after the warm or cold water or air is
placed into your ears.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be a sign of damage to the nerve of the inner ear or
other parts of the brain that control eye movements.

Any disease or injury that damages the acoustic nerve can cause vertigo. This
may include:

      * Blood vessel disorders with bleeding (hemorrhage), clots, or atherosclerosis of the blood supply of the ear
      * Cholesteatoma and other ear tumors
      * Congenital disorders
      * Injury
      * Medicines that are toxic to the ear nerves, including aminoglycoside antibiotics, some antimalarial drugs, loop diuretics, and salicylates
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Movement disorders such as progressive supranuclear palsy
      * Rubella
      * Some poisons 

Additional conditions under which the test may be performed:

      * Acoustic neuroma
      * Benign positional vertigo
      * Labyrinthitis
      * Meniere disease

## Risks

Rarely, too much water pressure inside the ear can injure your ear drum if
there has been previous damage. The water part of this test should not be done
if your eardrum has been perforated recently.

## Considerations

Electronystagmography is very useful because it can record movements behind
closed eyelids or with the head in many positions.

## Alternative Names

ENG

## References

Deluca GC, Griggs RC. Approach to the patient with neurologic disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 368.

Wackym PA. Neurotology. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological
Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

