Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000745.htm    
                                Description: You may have seen your health care provider because you have had benign positional vertigo. It is also called benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, or BPPV. BPPV is the most common cause of vertigo and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Benign positional vertigo - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000745.htm

# Benign positional vertigo - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may have seen your health care provider because you have had benign
positional vertigo. It is also called benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, or
BPPV. BPPV is the most common cause of vertigo and the easiest to treat.

## What to Expect

Your provider may have treated your vertigo with the Epley maneuver. These are
head movements that correct the inner ear problem that causes BPPV. After you
go home:

      * For the rest of the day, DO NOT bend over.
      * For several days after treatment, DO NOT sleep on the side that triggers symptoms.
      * Follow any other specific instructions your provider gave you. 

Most of the time, treatment will cure BPPV. Sometimes, vertigo may return
after a few weeks. About half the time, BPPV will come back later on. If this
happens, you will need to be treated again. Your provider may prescribe
medicines that can help relieve spinning sensations. But, these medicines
often do not work well for treating the actual vertigo.

## Self-care

If vertigo returns, remember that you can easily lose your balance, fall, and
hurt yourself. To help keep symptoms from getting worse and to help keep you
safe:

      * Sit down right away when you feel dizzy.
      * To get up from a lying position, slowly sit up and stay seated for a few moments before standing.
      * Make sure you hold on to something when standing.
      * Avoid sudden movements or position changes.
      * Ask your provider about using a cane or other walking aid when you have a vertigo attack.
      * Avoid bright lights, TV, and reading during a vertigo attack. They may make symptoms worse.
      * Avoid activities such as driving, operating heavy machinery, and climbing while you are having symptoms. 

To keep your symptoms from getting worse, avoid the positions that trigger it.
Your provider may show you how to treat yourself at home for BPPV. A physical
therapist may be able to teach you other exercises to reduce your symptoms.

Having BPPV can be stressful. Make healthy lifestyle choices to help you cope:

      * Eat a well-balanced, healthy diet. DO NOT overeat.
      * Exercise regularly, if possible.
      * Get enough sleep.
      * Limit caffeine and alcohol.
      * Learn to ease stress by using relaxation techniques, such as yoga, tai chi, or progressive muscle relaxation. 

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider if:

      * Symptoms of vertigo return
      * You have new symptoms
      * Your symptoms are getting worse
      * Home treatment does not work 

## Alternative Names

Vertigo - positional - aftercare; Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo -
aftercare; BPPV - aftercare; Dizziness - positional vertigo

## References

Bhattacharyya N, Gubbels SP, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2017;156(3_suppl):S1-S47. PMID: 28248609 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28248609.

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

Millar JL, Schubert MC, Shepard NT. Vestibular and balance rehabilitation:
program essentials. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 168.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dizziness and Vertigo

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

