Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000692.htm    
                                Description: Dizziness can describe two different symptoms: lightheadedness and vertigo.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dizziness and vertigo - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000692.htm

# Dizziness and vertigo - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dizziness can describe two different symptoms: lightheadedness and vertigo.

Lightheadedness means you feel like you might faint.

Vertigo means you feel like you are spinning or moving, or you feel like the
world is spinning around you. The feeling of spinning:

      * Often starts suddenly
      * Is usually started by moving the head
      * Lasts a few seconds to minutes 

## What to Expect

Most often, people say the spinning feeling can start when they roll over in
bed or tilt their head up to look at something.

Along with lightheadedness and vertigo, you may also have:

      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Hearing loss
      * Ringing in your ears (tinnitus)
      * Vision problems, such as a feeling that things are jumping or moving
      * Loss of balance, difficulty standing up

Lightheadedness usually gets better by itself, or is easily treated. However,
it can be a symptom of other problems. There are many causes. Medicines may
cause dizziness, or problems with your ear. Motion sickness can also make you
dizzy.

Vertigo can be a symptom of many disorders, as well. Some may be chronic,
long-term conditions. Some may come and go. Depending on the cause of your
vertigo, you may have other symptoms, like benign positional vertigo or
Meniere disease. It is important to have your doctor decide if your vertigo is
a sign of a serious problem.

## Self-care

If you have vertigo, you may be able to prevent your symptoms from getting
worse by:

      * Avoiding sudden movements or position changes
      * Keeping still and resting when you have symptoms
      * Avoiding bright lights, TV, and reading when you have symptoms 

When you feel better, slowly increase your activity. If you lose your balance,
you may need help walking to stay safe.

A sudden, dizzy spell during certain activities can be dangerous. Wait 1 week
after a severe spell of vertigo is gone before you climb, drive, or operate
heavy machinery or consult your health care provider for advice. Chronic
lightheadedness or vertigo can cause stress. Make healthy lifestyle choices to
help you cope:

      * Get enough sleep.
      * Eat a well-balanced, healthy diet. Do not overeat.
      * Exercise regularly, if possible.
      * Learn and practice ways to relax, such as guided imagery, progressive muscle relaxation, yoga, tai chi, or meditation. 

## Home Safety

Make your home as safe as you can, just in case you lose your balance. For
example:

      * Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another.
      * Remove loose throw rugs.
      * Install night lights.
      * Put nonskid mats and grab bars near the bathtub and toilet. 

## Medicines

Your health care provider may prescribe medicines for nausea and vomiting.
Lightheadedness and vertigo may improve with some medicines. Commonly used
drugs include:

      * Dimenhydrinate
      * Meclizine
      * Sedatives such as diazepam (Valium) 

Too much water or fluid in your body may make the symptoms worse by increasing
fluid pressure in your inner ear. Your provider may suggest a low salt diet or
water pills (diuretics).

## When to Call the Doctor

Call 911 or your local emergency number, or go to an emergency room if you are
dizzy and have:

      * A head injury
      * Fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
      * Headache or a very stiff neck
      * Seizures
      * Trouble keeping fluids down; vomiting that does not stop
      * Chest pain
      * Irregular heart beat
      * Shortness of breath
      * Weakness
      * Cannot move an arm or leg
      * Change in vision or speech
      * Fainting and losing alertness

Call your provider if you have:

      * New symptoms, or symptoms that are getting worse
      * Dizziness after taking medicine
      * Hearing loss 

## Alternative Names

Meniere disease - aftercare; Benign positional vertigo - aftercare

## References

Chang AK. Dizziness and vertigo. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

## Review Date 8/12/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dizziness and Vertigo

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

