Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001420.htm    
                                Description: Benign positional vertigo is the most common type of vertigo. Vertigo is the feeling that you are spinning or that everything is spinning around you. It may occur when you move your head in a certain position.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Benign positional vertigo

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001420.htm

# Benign positional vertigo

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Benign positional vertigo is the most common type of vertigo. Vertigo is the
feeling that you are spinning or that everything is spinning around you. It
may occur when you move your head in a certain position.

## Causes

Benign positional vertigo is also called benign paroxysmal positional vertigo
(BPPV). It is caused by a problem in the inner ear.

The inner ear has fluid-filled tubes called semicircular canals. When you
move, the fluid moves inside these tubes. The canals are very sensitive to any
movement of the fluid. The sensation of the fluid moving in the tube tells
your brain the position of your body. This helps you keep your balance.

BPPV occurs when small pieces of bone-like calcium (called canaliths) breaks
free and floats inside the tube. This sends confusing messages to your brain
about your body's position.

BPPV has no major risk factors. But, your risk of developing BPPV may increase
if you have:

      * Family members with BPPV
      * Had a prior head injury (even a slight bump to the head)
      * Had an inner ear infection called labyrinthitis

## Symptoms

BPPV symptoms include any of the following:

      * Feeling like you are spinning or moving
      * Feeling like the world is spinning around you
      * Loss of balance
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Hearing loss
      * Vision problems, such as a feeling that things are jumping or moving

The spinning sensation:

      * Is usually triggered by moving your head
      * Often starts suddenly
      * Lasts a few seconds to minutes

Certain positions can trigger the spinning feeling:

      * Rolling over in bed
      * Tilting your head up to look at something

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your medical
history.

To diagnose BPPV, your provider may perform a test called the Dix-Hallpike
maneuver.

      * Your provider holds your head in a certain position. Then you are asked to lie quickly backward over a table.
      * As you do this, your provider will look for abnormal eye movements (called nystagmus) and ask if you feel like you are spinning. 

If this test doesn't show a clear result, you may be asked to do other tests.

You may have brain and nervous system (neurological) tests to rule out other
causes. These may include:

      * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
      * Electronystagmography (ENG)
      * Head CT scan
      * Head MRI scan
      * Hearing test
      * Magnetic resonance angiography of the head
      * Warming and cooling the inner ear with water or air to test eye movements (caloric stimulation)

## Treatment

Your provider may perform a procedure called the (Epley maneuver). It is a
series of head movements to reposition the canaliths in your inner ear. The
procedure may need to be repeated if symptoms come back, but this treatment
works best to cure BPPV.

Your provider may teach you other repositioning exercises that you can do at
home, but may take longer than the Epley maneuver to work. Other exercises,
such as balance therapy, may help some people.

Some medicines can help relieve spinning sensations:

      * Antihistamines
      * Anticholinergics
      * Sedative-hypnotics

But, these medicines often do not work well for treating vertigo.

Follow instructions on how to take care for yourself at home. To keep your
symptoms from getting worse, avoid the positions that trigger it.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

BPPV is uncomfortable, but it can usually be treated with the Epley maneuver.
It may come back again without warning.

## Possible Complications

People with severe vertigo may get dehydrated due to frequent vomiting.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop vertigo.
      * Treatment for vertigo doesn't work.

Get medical help right away if you also have symptoms such as:

      * Weakness
      * Slurred speech
      * Vision problems 

These may be signs of a more serious condition.

## Prevention

Avoid head positions that trigger positional vertigo.

## Alternative Names

Vertigo - positional; Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo; BPPV; Dizziness -
positional

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Hearing and equilibrium. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 400.

Bhattacharyya N, Gubbels SP, Schwartz SR, et al; American Academy of
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Foundation. Clinical practice guideline:
benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2017;156(3_Suppl):S1-S47. PMID: 28248609 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28248609.

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

