Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000659.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10; &#10;Neck dissection is surgery to remove the lymph nodes in your neck. Cells from cancers in the mouth or throat can travel in the lymph fluid and get trapped in your lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are removed    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neck dissection - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000659.htm

# Neck dissection - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neck dissection is surgery to remove the lymph nodes in your neck. Cells from
cancers in the mouth or throat can travel in the lymph fluid and get trapped
in your lymph nodes. The lymph nodes are removed to prevent cancer from
spreading to other parts of your body.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were likely to be in the hospital for 2 to 3 days. To help get ready for
going home, you may have received help with:

      * Drinking, eating, and perhaps talking
      * Caring for your surgical wound in any drains
      * Using your shoulder and neck muscles
      * Breathing and handling secretions in your throat
      * Managing your pain 

## What to Expect at Home

Your health care provider will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get
it filled when you go home so you have the medicine when you need it. Take
your pain medicine when you start having pain. Waiting too long to take it
will allow your pain to get worse than it should.

DO NOT take aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
These medicines may increase bleeding.

You will have staples or suture in the wound. You may also have mild redness
and swelling for the first couple of weeks after surgery.

You may have a drain in your neck when you leave the hospital. The provider
will tell you how to care for it.

Healing time will depend on how much tissue was removed.

## Diet and Nutrition

You can eat your regular foods unless your provider has given you a special
diet.

If pain in your neck and throat is making it hard to eat:

      * Take your pain medicine 30 minutes before meals.
      * Choose soft foods, such as ripe bananas, hot cereal, and moist chopped meat and vegetables.
      * Limit foods that are hard to chew, such as fruit skins, nuts, and tough meat.
      * If one side of your face or mouth is weaker, chew food on the stronger side of your mouth. 

Keep an eye out for swallowing problems, such as:

      * Coughing or choking, during or after eating
      * Gurgling sounds from your throat during or after eating
      * Throat clearing after drinking or swallowing
      * Slow chewing or eating
      * Coughing food back up after eating
      * Hiccups after swallowing
      * Chest discomfort during or after swallowing
      * Unexplained weight loss 

## Activity

      * You may move your neck gently sideways, up and down. You may be given stretching exercises to do at home. Avoid straining your neck muscles or lifting objects weighing more than 10 pounds (lbs) or 4.5 kilograms (kg) for 4 to 6 weeks.
      * Try to walk every day. You can return to sports (golf, tennis, and running) after 4 to 6 weeks.
      * Most people are able to go back to work in 2 to 3 weeks. Ask your provider when is it is OK for you to return to work.
      * You will be able to drive when you can turn your shoulder far enough to see safely. DO NOT drive while you are taking strong (narcotic) pain medicine. Ask your provider when it is OK for you to start driving.
      * Make sure your home is safe while you are recovering. 

## Other Self-care

You will need to learn to care for your wound.

      * You may get special antibiotic cream in the hospital to rub on your wound. Continue to do this 2 or 3 times a day after you go home.
      * You can shower after you return home. Wash your wound gently with soap and water. DO NOT scrub or let the shower spray directly on your wound.
      * DO NOT take a tub bath for the first few weeks after your surgery. 

## Follow-up

You will need to see your provider for a follow up visit in 7 to 10 days. The
sutures or staples will be removed at this time.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have a fever over 100.5Â°F (38.5Â°C).
      * Your pain medicine is not working to relieve your pain.
      * Your surgical wounds are bleeding, are red or warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage.
      * You have problems with the drain.
      * You cannot eat and lose weight because of swallowing problems.
      * You are choking or coughing when you eat or swallow.
      * It is hard to breathe.

## Alternative Names

Radical neck dissection - discharge; Modified radical neck dissection -
discharge; Selective neck dissection - discharge

## References

Callender GG, Udelsman R. Surgical approach to thyroid cancer. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:782-786.

Robbins KT, Samant S, Ronen O. Neck dissection. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 119.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Head and Neck Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

