Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001634.htm    
                                Description: A glomus jugulare tumor is a tumor of the part of the temporal bone in the skull that involves the middle and inner ear structures. This tumor can affect the ear, upper neck, base of the skull, and the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glomus jugulare tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001634.htm

# Glomus jugulare tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A glomus jugulare tumor is a tumor of the part of the temporal bone in the
skull that involves the middle and inner ear structures. This tumor can affect
the ear, upper neck, base of the skull, and the surrounding blood vessels and
nerves.

## Causes

A glomus jugulare tumor grows in the temporal bone of the skull, in an area
called the jugular foramen. The jugular foramen is also where the jugular vein
and several important nerves exit the skull.

This area contains nerve fibers, called glomus bodies. Normally, these nerves
respond to changes in body temperature or blood pressure.

These tumors most often occur later in life, around age 60 or 70, but they can
appear at any age. The cause of a glomus jugulare tumor is unknown. In most
cases, there are no known risk factors. Glomus tumors have been associated
with changes (mutations) in a gene responsible for the enzyme succinate
dehydrogenase (SDHD).

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)
      * Dizziness
      * Hearing problems or loss
      * Hearing pulsations in the ear
      * Hoarseness
      * Pain
      * Weakness or loss of movement in the face (facial nerve palsy)

## Exams and Tests

Glomus jugulare tumors are diagnosed by a physical exam and imaging tests,
including:

      * Cerebral angiography
      * CT scan
      * MRI scan

## Treatment

Glomus jugulare tumors are rarely cancerous and do not tend to spread to other
parts of the body. However, treatment may be needed to relieve symptoms. The
main treatment is surgery. Surgery is complex and is most often done by a
neurosurgeon, head and neck surgeon, and ear surgeon (neurotologist).

In some cases, a procedure called embolization is performed before surgery to
prevent the tumor from bleeding too much during surgery.

After surgery, radiation therapy may be used to treat any part of the tumor
that could not be removed completely.

Some glomus tumors can be treated with stereotactic radiosurgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have surgery or radiation tend to do well. More than 90% of those
with glomus jugulare tumors are cured.

## Possible Complications

The most common complications are due to nerve damage, which may be caused by
the tumor itself or damage during surgery. Nerve damage can lead to:

      * Change in voice
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Hearing loss
      * Paralysis of the face

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you:

      * Are having difficulty with hearing or swallowing
      * Develop pulsations in your ear
      * Notice a lump in your neck
      * Notice any problems with the muscles in your face

## Alternative Names

Paraganglioma - glomus jugulare

## References

Marsh M, Jenkins HA. Temporal bone neoplasms and lateral cranial base surgery.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 176.

Rucker JC, Thurtell MJ. Cranial neuropathies. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 104.

Zanotti B, Verlicchi A, Gerosa M. Glomus tumors. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and
Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 156.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Head and Neck
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeadandNeckCancer_thumb.jpg)Head and
Neck Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

