Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003072.htm    
                                Description: Coughing is an important way to keep your throat and airways clear. But too much coughing may mean you have a disease or disorder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cough

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003072.htm

# Cough

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coughing is an important way to keep your throat and airways clear. But too
much coughing may mean you have a disease or disorder.

![Coughing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200021t.gif)Watch this
video about:Coughing

Some coughs are dry. Others are productive. A productive cough is one that
brings up mucus. Mucus is also called phlegm or sputum.

Coughs can be either acute or chronic:

      * Acute coughs usually begin rapidly and are often due to a cold, flu, or sinus infection. They usually go away after 3 weeks.
      * Subacute coughs last 3 to 8 weeks.
      * Chronic coughs last longer than 8 weeks. 

## Causes

Common causes of coughing are:

      * Allergies that involve the nose or sinuses
      * Asthma and COPD (emphysema or chronic bronchitis)
      * The common cold and flu
      * Lung infections such as pneumonia or acute bronchitis
      * Sinusitis with postnasal drip 

Other causes include:

      * ACE inhibitors (medicines used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure, or kidney diseases)
      * Cigarette smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
      * Lung cancer
      * Lung disease such as bronchiectasis or interstitial lung disease

## Home Care

If you have asthma or another chronic lung disease, make sure you are taking
medicines prescribed by your health care provider.

Here are some tips to help ease your cough:

      * If you have a dry, tickling cough, try cough drops or hard candy. Never give these to a child under age 3, because they can cause choking.
      * Use a vaporizer or take a steamy shower to increase moisture in the air and help soothe a dry throat.
      * Drink plenty of fluids. Liquids help thin the mucus in your throat making it easier to cough it up.
      * DO NOT smoke, and stay away from secondhand smoke.

Medicines you can buy on your own include:

      * Guaifenesin helps break up mucus. Follow package instructions on how much to take. DO NOT take more than the recommended amount. Drink lots of fluids if you take this medicine.
      * Decongestants help clear a runny nose and relieve postnasal drip. Check with your provider before taking decongestants if you have high blood pressure.
      * Talk to your child's provider before you give children ages 6 years or younger an over-the-counter cough medicine, even if it is labeled for children. These medicines likely do not work for children, and can have serious side effects.

If you have seasonal allergies, such as hay fever:

      * Stay indoors during days or times of the day (usually the morning) when airborne allergens are high.
      * Keep windows closed and use an air conditioner.
      * DO not use fans that draw in air from outdoors.
      * Shower and change your clothes after being outside.

If you have allergies year-round, cover your pillows and mattress with dust
mite covers, use an air purifier, and avoid pets with fur and other triggers.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if you have:

      * Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
      * HivesÂ or a swollen face or throat with difficulty swallowing

Call your provider right away if a person with cough has any of the following:

      * Heart disease, swelling in your legs, or a cough that gets worse when you lie down (may be signs of heart failure)
      * Have come into contact with someone who has tuberculosis
      * Unintentional weight loss or night sweats (could be tuberculosis)
      * An infant younger than 3 months old who has a cough
      * Cough lasts longer than 10 to 14 days
      * Cough that produces blood
      * Fever (may be a sign of a bacterial infection that requires antibiotics)
      * High-pitched sound (called stridor) when breathing in
      * Thick, foul-smelling, yellowish-green phlegm (could be a bacterial infection)
      * Violent cough that begins rapidly

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. You will be asked about your cough.
Questions may include:

      * When the cough began
      * What it sounds like
      * If there is pattern to it
      * What makes it better or worse
      * If you have other symptoms, such as a fever

The provider will examine your ears, nose, throat, and chest.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Chest x-rayÂ or CT scan
      * Lung function tests
      * Blood tests
      * Tests to check the heart, such as an echocardiogram

Treatment depends on the cause of the cough.

## Patient Instructions

      * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
      * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
      * When your baby or infant has a fever

## Images

      * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs

## References

Chung KF, Mazzone SB. Cough. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds.
_Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 30.

Kraft M. Approach to the patient with respiratory disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cough](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cough_thumb.jpg)Cough _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

