Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003043.htm    
                                Description: Tinnitus is the medical term for &quot;hearing&quot; noises in your ears. It occurs when there is no outside source of the sounds.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tinnitus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003043.htm

# Tinnitus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tinnitus is the medical term for "hearing" noises in your ears. It occurs when
there is no outside source of the sounds.

Tinnitus is often called "ringing in the ears." It may also sound like
blowing, roaring, buzzing, hissing, humming, whistling, or sizzling. The
noises heard can be soft or loud. The person may even think they're hearing
air escaping, water running, the inside of a seashell, or musical notes.

## Considerations

Tinnitus is common. Almost everyone notices a mild form of tinnitus once in a
while. It only lasts a few minutes. However, constant or recurring tinnitus is
stressful and makes it harder to focus or sleep.

Tinnitus can be:

      * Subjective, which means that the sound is only heard by the person
      * Objective, which means that the sound is heard by both the affected person and the examiner (using a stethoscope near the person's ear, head, or neck)

## Causes

It is not known exactly what causes a person to "hear" sounds with no outside
source of the noise. However, tinnitus can be a symptom of almost any ear
problem, including:

      * Ear infections
      * Foreign objects or wax in the ear
      * Hearing loss
      * Meniere disease \-- an inner ear disorder that involves hearing loss and dizziness
      * Problem with the eustachian tube (tube that runs between the middle ear and the throat) Â 

Antibiotics, aspirin, or other drugs may also cause ear noises. Alcohol,
caffeine, or smoking may worsen tinnitus if the person already has it.

Sometimes, tinnitus is a sign of high blood pressure, an allergy, or anemia.
In rare cases, tinnitus is a sign of a serious problem such as a tumor or
aneurysm. Other risk factors for tinnitus include temporomandibular joint
disorder (TMJ), diabetes, thyroid problems, obesity, and head injury.

Tinnitus is common in war veterans and in older adults age 65 years or older.
Children can also be affected, especially those with severe hearing loss.

## Home Care

Tinnitus is often more noticeable when you go to bed at night because your
surroundings are quieter.Â ToÂ mask tinnitus and make it less irritating,
background noise using the following may help:

      * White noise machine
      * Running a humidifier or dishwasher

Home care of tinnitus mainly includes:

      * Learning ways to relax. It is not known if stress causes tinnitus, but feeling stressed or anxious can worsen it.
      * Avoiding things that may make tinnitus worse, such as caffeine, alcohol, and smoking.
      * Getting enough rest. Try sleeping with your head propped up in an elevated position. This lessens head congestion and may make noises less noticeable.
      * Protecting your ears and hearing from further damage. Avoid loud places and sounds. Wear ear protection, such as earplugs, if you need them.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Ear noises start after a head injury.
      * The noises occur with other unexplained symptoms, like dizziness, feeling off balance, nausea, or vomiting.
      * You have unexplained ear noises that bother you even after you try self-help measures.
      * The noise is only inÂ one ear and it continues for several weeks or longer. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The following tests may be done:

      * Audiometry to test hearing loss
      * Head CT scan
      * Head MRI scan
      * Blood vessel studies (angiography) 

TREATMENT

Fixing the problem, if it can be found, may make your symptoms go away. (For
example, your provider may remove ear wax.) If TMJ is the cause, your dentist
may suggest dental appliances or home exercises to treat teeth clenching and
grinding.

Talk to your provider about all your current medicines to see if a drug may be
causing the problem. This may include over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, and
supplements. Do not stop taking any medicine without talking to your provider.

Many medicines are used to relieve symptoms of tinnitus, but no drug works for
everyone. Your provider may have you try different medicines or combinations
of medicines to see what works for you.

A tinnitus masker worn like a hearing aid helps some people. It delivers low-
level sound directly into the ear to cover the ear noise.

A hearing aid may help reduce ear noise and make outside sounds louder.

Counseling may help you learn to live with tinnitus. Your provider may suggest
biofeedback training to help with stress.

Some people have tried alternative therapies to treat tinnitus. These methods
have not been proven, so talk to your provider before trying them.

Tinnitus can be managed. Talk with your provider about a management plan that
works for you.Â

The American Tinnitus Association offers a good resource center and support
group.

## Alternative Names

Ringing in the ears; Noises or buzzing in the ears; Ear buzzing; Otitis media
- tinnitus; Aneurysm - tinnitus; Ear infection - tinnitus; Meniere disease -
tinnitus

## Images

      * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Bauer CA. Tinnitus and hyperacusis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 151.

Eggermont JJ. Epidemiology and genetics of hearing loss and tinnitus. In:
Eggermont JJ, ed. _Hearing Loss: Causes, Prevention, and Treatment_.
Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2017:chap 7.Â

Tunkel DE, Bauer CA, Sun GH, et al. Clinical practice guideline: tinnitus.
_Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_. 2014;151(2 Suppl):S1-S40. PMID: 25273878.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25273878.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 09/28/2018.

![Tinnitus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tinnitus_thumb.jpg)Tinnitus _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

