Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001649.htm    
                                Description: The adenoids are lymph tissues that sit in your upper airway between your nose and the back of your throat. They are similar to the tonsils.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enlarged adenoids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001649.htm

# Enlarged adenoids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The adenoids are lymph tissues that sit in your upper airway between your nose
and the back of your throat. They are similar to the tonsils.

Enlarged adenoids means this tissue is swollen.

![Adenoids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19259.jpg)

## Causes

Enlarged adenoids may be normal. They may grow bigger when the baby grows in
the womb. The adenoids help the body prevent or fight infections by trapping
bacteria and germs.

Infections can cause the adenoids to become swollen. The adenoids may stay
enlarged even when you are not sick.

## Symptoms

Children with enlarged adenoids often breathe through the mouth because the
nose is blocked. Mouth breathing occurs mostly at night, but may be present
during the day.

Mouth breathing may lead to the following symptoms:

      * Bad breath
      * Cracked lips
      * Dry mouth
      * Persistent runny nose or nasal congestion

Enlarged adenoids may also cause sleep problems. A child may:

      * Be restless while sleeping
      * Snore a lot
      * Have episodes of not breathing during sleep (sleep apnea) 

Children with enlarged adenoids may also have more frequent ear infections.

## Exams and Tests

The adenoids cannot be seen by looking in the mouth directly. The health care
provider can see them by using a special mirror in the mouth or by inserting a
flexible tube (called an endoscope) placed through the nose.

Tests may include:

      * X-ray of the throat or neck
      * Sleep study if sleep apnea is suspected

## Treatment

Many people with enlarged adenoids have few or no symptoms and do not need
treatment. Adenoids shrink as a child grows older.

The provider may prescribe antibiotics or nasal steroid sprays if an infection
develops.

Surgery to remove the adenoids (adenoidectomy) may be done if the symptoms are
severe or persistent.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has trouble breathing through the nose or
other symptoms of enlarged adenoids.

## Alternative Names

Adenoids - enlarged

## Patient Instructions

      * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

## Images

      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
      * ![Adenoids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19259t.jpg)Adenoids

## References

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 411.

Yellon RF, Chi DH. Otolaryngology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ,
eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 24.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tonsillitis_thumb.jpg)Adenoids _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

