Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003011.htm    
                                Description: Adenoid removal is surgery to take out the adenoid glands. The adenoid glands sit behind your nose above the roof of your mouth in the nasopharynx. Air passes over these glands when you take a breath.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adenoid removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003011.htm

# Adenoid removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adenoid removal is surgery to take out the adenoid glands. The adenoid glands
sit behind your nose above the roof of your mouth in the nasopharynx. Air
passes over these glands when you take a breath.

![Adenoids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19259.jpg)

The adenoids are often taken out at the same time as the tonsils
(tonsillectomy).

Adenoid removal is also called adenoidectomy. The procedure is most often done
in children.

## Description

Your child will be given general anesthesia before surgery. This means your
child will be asleep and unable to feel pain.

During surgery:

      * The surgeon places a small tool into your child's mouth to keep it open.
      * The surgeon removes the adenoid glands using a spoon-shaped tool (curette). Or, another tool that helps cut away soft tissue is used.
      * Some surgeons use electricity to heat the tissue, remove it, and stop bleeding. This is called electrocautery. Another method uses radiofrequency (RF) energy to do the same thing. This is called coblation. A cutting tool called a debrider can also be used to remove the adenoid tissue.
      * Absorbent material called packing material may also be used to control bleeding. 

Your child will stay in the recovery room after surgery. You will be allowed
to take your child home when your child is awake and can breathe easily,
cough, and swallow. In most cases, this will be a few hours after surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A health care provider may recommend this procedure if:

      * Enlarged adenoids are blocking your child's airway. Symptoms in your child can include heavy snoring, problems breathing through the nose, and episodes of not breathing during sleep.
      * Your child has chronic ear infections that occur often, continue despite use of antibiotics, cause hearing loss, or cause the child to miss a lot of school days. 

Adenoidectomy may also be recommended if your child has tonsillitis that keeps
coming back.

The adenoids normally shrink as children grow older. Adults rarely need to
have them removed.

## Risks

Risks of any anesthesia are:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems

Risks of any surgery are:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection 

## Before the Procedure

Your provider will tell you how to prepare your child for this procedure.

A week before the surgery, do not give your child any medicine that thins the
blood unless your doctor says to do so. Such medicines include aspirin and
ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin).

The night before the surgery, your child should have nothing to eat or drink
after midnight. This includes water.

You will be told what medicines your child should take on the day of surgery.
Have your child take the medicine with a sip of water.

## After the Procedure

Your child will go home on the same day as surgery. Complete recovery takes
about 1 to 2 weeks.

Follow instructions on how to care for your child at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After this procedure, most children:

      * Breathe better through the nose
      * Have fewer and milder sore throats
      * Have fewer ear infections 

In rare cases, adenoid tissue may grow back. This does not cause problems most
of the time. However, it can be removed again if necessary.

## Alternative Names

Adenoidectomy; Removal of adenoid glands

## Patient Instructions

      * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge
      * Tonsil removal - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

      * ![Adenoids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19259t.jpg)Adenoids
      * ![Adenoid removal - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19716t.jpg)Adenoid removal - series

## References

Casselbrandt ML, Mandel EM. Acute otitis media and otitis media with effusion.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 195.

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 383.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tonsillitis_thumb.jpg)Adenoids _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

