Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000067.htm    
                                Description: Blockage of the upper airway occurs when the upper breathing passages become narrowed or blocked, making it hard to breathe. Areas in the upper airway that can be affected are the windpipe (trachea), voice    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blockage of upper airway

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000067.htm

# Blockage of upper airway

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blockage of the upper airway occurs when the upper breathing passages become
narrowed or blocked, making it hard to breathe. Areas in the upper airway that
can be affected are the windpipe (trachea), voice box (larynx), or throat
(pharynx).

## Causes

The airway can become narrowed or blocked due to many causes, including:

      * Allergic reactions in which the trachea or throat swell closed, including allergic reactions to a bee sting, peanuts, antibiotics (such as penicillin), and blood pressure medicines (such as ACE inhibitors)
      * Chemical burns and reactions
      * Epiglottitis (infection of the structure separating the trachea from the esophagus)
      * Fire or burns from breathing in smoke
      * Foreign bodies, such as peanuts and other breathed-in foods, pieces of a balloon, buttons, coins, and small toys
      * Infections of the upper airway area
      * Injury to the upper airway area
      * Peritonsillar abscess (collection of infected material near the tonsils)
      * Poisoning from certain substances, such as strychnine
      * Retropharyngeal abscessÂ (collection of infected material in the back of the airway)
      * Severe asthma attack
      * Throat cancer
      * Tracheomalacia (weakness of the cartilage that supports the trachea)
      * Vocal cord problems
      * Passing out or being unconscious 

People at higher risk for airway obstruction include those who have:

      * Neurologic problems such as swallowing difficulty after a stroke
      * Lost teeth
      * Certain mental health problems

Young children and older adults are also at higher risk for airway
obstruction.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary, depending on the cause. But some symptoms are common to all
types of airway blockage. These include:

      * Agitation or fidgeting
      * Bluish color to the skin (cyanosis)
      * Changes in consciousness
      * Choking
      * Confusion
      * Difficulty breathing, gasping for air, leading to panic
      * Unconsciousness
      * Wheezing, crowing, whistling, or other unusual breathing noises indicating breathing difficulty 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical examination and check the airway.
The provider will also ask about the possible cause of the blockage.

Tests are usually not necessary, but may include:

      * Bronchoscopy (tube through the mouth into the trachea and bronchial tubes)
      * Laryngoscopy (tube through the mouth into the back of the throat and voicebox)
      * X-rays 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the blockage.

      * Objects stuck in the airway may be removed with special instruments.
      * A tube may be inserted into the airway (endotracheal tube) to help with breathing.
      * Sometimes an opening is made through the neck into the airway (tracheostomy or cricothyrotomy). 

If the obstruction is due to a foreign body, such as a piece of food that has
been breathed in, doing abdominal thrusts or chest compressions can save the
person's life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prompt treatment is often successful. But the condition is dangerous andÂ may
beÂ fatal, evenÂ when treated.

## Possible Complications

If the obstruction is not relieved, it can cause:

      * Brain damage
      * Breathing failure
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Airway obstruction is often an emergency. Call 911 or the local emergency
number for medical help. Follow instructions on how to help keep the person
breathing until help arrives.

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the cause of the upper airway obstruction.

The following methods may help prevent an obstruction:

      * Eat slowly and chew food completely.
      * Do not drink too much alcohol before or while eating.
      * Keep small objects away from young children.
      * Make sure dentures fit properly. 

Learn to recognize the universal sign for inability to breathe due to a
blocked airway: grabbing the neck with one or both hands. Also learn how to
clear a foreign body from the airway using a method such as abdominal thrusts.

## Alternative Names

Airway obstruction - acute upper

## Images

      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
      * ![Choking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17107t.jpg)Choking
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Driver BE, Reardon RF. Basic airway management and decision making. In:
Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical
Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 3.

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Choking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Choking_thumb.jpg)Choking _Read
more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![Tracheal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrachealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tracheal
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

