Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001385.htm    
                                Description: Laryngitis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the voice box (larynx). The problem is most often associated with hoarseness or loss of voice.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laryngitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001385.htm

# Laryngitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laryngitis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the voice box
(larynx). The problem is most often associated with hoarseness or loss of
voice.

## Causes

The voice box (larynx) is located at the top of the airway to the lungs
(trachea). The larynx contains the vocal cords. When the vocal cords become
inflamed or infected, they swell. This can cause hoarseness. Sometimes, the
airway can get blocked.

The most common form of laryngitis is an infection caused by a virus. It may
also be caused by:

      * Allergies
      * Bacterial infection
      * Bronchitis
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
      * Injury
      * Irritants and chemicals

Laryngitis often occurs with an upper respiratory infection, which is
typically caused by a virus.

Several forms of laryngitis occur in children that can lead to dangerous or
fatal respiratory blockage. These forms include:

      * Croup
      * Epiglottitis

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Fever
      * Hoarseness
      * Swollen lymph nodes or glands in the neck 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam can find whether hoarseness is caused by a respiratory tract
infection.

People with hoarseness that lasts more than a month (especially smokers) will
need to see an ear, nose, and throat doctor (otolaryngologist). Tests of the
throat and upper airway will be done.

## Treatment

Common laryngitis is often caused by a virus, so antibiotics likely will not
help. Your health care provider will make this decision.

Resting your voice helps to reduce inflammation of the vocal cords. A
humidifier may soothe the scratchy feeling that comes with laryngitis.
Decongestants and pain medicines may relieve the symptoms of an upper
respiratory infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Laryngitis that is not caused by a serious condition often gets better on its
own.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, severe respiratory distress develops. This requires immediate
medical attention.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * A small child who is not teething has difficulty breathing, swallowing, or is drooling
      * A child less than 3 months old has hoarseness
      * Hoarseness has lasted for more than 1 week in a child, or 2 weeks in an adult

## Prevention

To prevent getting laryngitis:

      * Try to avoid people who have upper respiratory infections during cold and flu season.
      * Wash your hands often.
      * DO NOT strain your voice.
      * Stop smoking. This can help prevent tumors of the head and neck or lungs, which can lead to hoarseness. 

## Alternative Names

HoarsenessÂ - laryngitis

## Images

      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Allen CT, Merati AL. Acute and chronic laryngitis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

Flint PW. Throat disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 429.

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A toddler sleeping in a parent's
arms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sleeping_thumb.jpg)Croup _Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

