Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001636.htm    
                                Description: Glossopharyngeal neuralgia is a rare condition in which there are repeated episodes of severe pain in the tongue, throat, ear, and tonsils. This can last from a few seconds to a few minutes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glossopharyngeal neuralgia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001636.htm

# Glossopharyngeal neuralgia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glossopharyngeal neuralgia is a rare condition in which there are repeated
episodes of severe pain in the tongue, throat, ear, and tonsils. This can last
from a few seconds to a few minutes.

## Causes

Glossopharyngeal neuralgia (GPN) is believed to be caused by irritation of the
ninth cranial nerve, called the glossopharyngeal nerve. Symptoms usually begin
in people over age 50.

In most cases, the source of irritation is never found. Possible causes for
this type of nerve pain (neuralgia) are:

      * Blood vessels pressing on the glossopharyngeal nerve
      * Growths at the base of the skull pressing on the glossopharyngeal nerve
      * Tumors or infections of the throat and mouth pressing on the glossopharyngeal nerve

## Symptoms

The pain usually occurs on one side and may be jabbing. In rare cases, both
sides are involved. Symptoms include severe pain in areas connected to the
ninth cranial nerve:

      * Back of the nose and throat (nasopharynx)
      * Back of the tongue
      * Ear
      * Throat
      * Tonsil area
      * Voice box (larynx)

The pain occurs in episodes and may be severe. The episodes can occur many
times each day and awaken the person from sleep. It can sometimes be triggered
by:

      * Chewing
      * Coughing
      * Laughing
      * Speaking
      * Swallowing
      * Yawning
      * Sneezing
      * Cold beverages
      * Touching (a blunt object to the tonsil of the affected side)

## Exams and Tests

Tests will be done to identify problems, such as tumors, at the base of the
skull. Tests may include:

      * Blood tests to rule out any infection or tumor
      * CT scan of the head
      * MRI of the head
      * X-rays of the head or neck 

Sometimes the MRI may show swelling (inflammation) of the glossopharyngeal
nerve.

To find out whether a blood vessel is pressing on the nerve, pictures of the
brain arteries may be taken using:

      * Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)
      * CT angiogram
      * X-rays of the arteries with a dye (conventional angiography) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control pain. The most effective drugs are
antiseizure medicines such as carbamazepine. Antidepressants may help certain
people.

In severe cases, when pain is difficult to treat, surgery to take pressure off
the glossopharyngeal nerve may be needed. This is called microvascular
decompression. The nerve can also be cut (rhizotomy). Both surgeries are
effective. If a cause of the neuralgia is found, treatment should control the
underlying problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the cause of the problem and the effectiveness of
the first treatment. Surgery is considered effective for people who do not
benefit from medicines.

## Possible Complications

Complications of GPN may include:

      * Slow pulse and fainting may occur when pain is severe
      * Damage to the carotid artery or internal jugular artery due to injuries, such as a stab wound
      * Difficulty in swallowing food and speaking
      * Side effects of the medicines used

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider right away if you have symptoms of GPN.

See a pain specialist if the pain is severe, to be sure that you are aware of
all your options for controlling pain.

## Alternative Names

Cranial mononeuropathy IX; Weisenberg syndrome; GPN

## Images

      * ![Glossopharyngeal neuralgia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9350t.jpg)Glossopharyngeal neuralgia

## References

Ko MW, Prasad S. Headache, facial pain, and disorders of facial sensation. In:
Liu GT, Volpe NJ, Galetta SL, eds. _Liu, Volpe, and Galetta's Neuro-
Ophthalmology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Miller JP, Burchiel KJ. Microvascular decompression for trigeminal neuralgia.
In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 174.

Narouze S, Pope JE. Orofacial pain. In: Benzon HT, Raja SN, Liu SS, Fishman
SM, Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 23.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

