Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007507.htm    
                                Description: Laryngoscopy is an exam of the back of your throat, including your voice box (larynx). Your voice box contains your vocal cords and allows you to speak.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laryngoscopy and nasolarynoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007507.htm

# Laryngoscopy and nasolarynoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laryngoscopy is an exam of the back of your throat, including your voice box
(larynx). Your voice box contains your vocal cords and allows you to speak.

## How the Test is Performed

Laryngoscopy may be done in different ways:

      * Indirect laryngoscopy uses a small mirror held at the back of your throat. The health care provider shines a light on the mirror to view the throat area. This is a simple procedure. Most of the time, it can be done in the provider's office while you are awake. A medicine to numb the back of your throat may be used.
      * Fiberoptic laryngoscopy (nasolaryngoscopy) uses a small flexible telescope. The scope is passed through your nose and into your throat. This is the most common way that the voice box is examined. You are awake for the procedure. Numbing medicine will be sprayed in your nose. This procedure typically takes less than 1 minute.
      * Laryngoscopy using strobe light can also be done. Use of strobe light can give the provider more information about problems with your voice box
      * Direct laryngoscopy uses a tube called a laryngoscope. The instrument is placed in the back of your throat. The tube may be flexible or stiff. This procedure allows the doctor to see deeper in the throat and to remove a foreign object or sample tissue for a biopsy. It is done in a hospital or medical center under general anesthesia, meaning you will be asleep and pain-free.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Preparation will depend on the type of laryngoscopy you will have. If the exam
willÂ be doneÂ under general anesthesia, you may be told not to drink or eat
anything for several hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

How the test will feel depends on which type of laryngoscopy is done.

Indirect laryngoscopy using a mirror or stroboscopy can cause gagging. For
this reason, it is not often used in children under age 6Â to 7 or those who
gag easily.

Fiberoptic laryngoscopy can be done in children. It may cause a feeling of
pressure and a feeling like you are going to sneeze.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test can help your provider diagnose many conditions involving the throat
and voice box. Your provider may recommend this test if you have:

      * Bad breath that does not go away
      * Breathing problems, including noisy breathing (stridor)
      * Long-term (chronic) cough
      * Coughing up blood
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Ear pain that does not go away
      * Feeling that something is stuck in your throat
      * Long-term upper respiratory problem in a smoker
      * Mass in the head or neck area with signs of cancer
      * Throat pain that does not go away
      * Voice problems that last more than 3 weeks, including hoarseness, weak voice, raspy voice, or no voice

A direct laryngoscopy may also be used to:

      * Remove a sample of tissue in the throat for closer examination under a microscope (biopsy)
      * Remove an object that is blocking the airway (for example, a swallowed a marble or coin)

## Normal Results

A normal result means the throat, voice box, and vocal cords appear normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Acid reflux (GERD), which can cause redness and swelling of the vocal cords
      * Cancer of the throat or voice box
      * Nodules on the vocal cords
      * Polyps (benign lumps) on the voice box
      * Inflammation in the throat
      * Thinning of the muscle and tissue in the voice box (presbylaryngis)

## Risks

Laryngoscopy is a safe procedure. Risks depend on the specific procedure, but
may include:

      * Allergic reaction to anesthesia, including breathing and heart problems
      * Infection
      * Major bleeding
      * Nosebleed
      * Spasm of the vocal cords, which causes breathing problems
      * Ulcers in the lining of the mouth/throat
      * Injury to the tongue or lips 

## Considerations

Indirect mirror laryngoscopy should NOT be done:

      * In infants or very young children
      * If you have acute epiglottitis, an infection or swelling of the flap of tissue in front of the voice box
      * If you cannot open your mouth very wide

## Alternative Names

Laryngopharyngoscopy; Indirect laryngoscopy; Flexible laryngoscopy; Mirror
laryngoscopy; Direct laryngoscopy; Fiberoptic laryngoscopy; Laryngoscopy using
strobe (laryngeal stroboscopy)

## References

Armstrong WB, Vokes DE, Verma SP. Malignant tumors of the larynx. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 106.

Hoffman HT, Gailey MPO, Pagedar NA, Anderson C. Management of early glottic
cancer. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 107.

Mark LJ, Hillel AT, Herzer KR, Akst SA, Michelson JD. General considerations
of anesthesia and management of the difficult airway. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 5.

Truong MT, Messner AH. Evaluation and management of the pediatric airway. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head &
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 202.

Wakefield TL, Lam DJ, Ishman SL. Sleep apnea and sleep disorders. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

