Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000352.htm    
                                Description: Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma is a rare and aggressive form of cancer of the thyroid gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anaplastic thyroid cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000352.htm

# Anaplastic thyroid cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma is a rare and aggressive form of cancer of the
thyroid gland.

## Causes

Anaplastic thyroid cancer is an invasive type of thyroid cancer that grows
very rapidly. It occurs most often in people over age 60. It is more common in
females than in males. The cause is unknown.

Anaplastic cancer accounts for only about less than 1% of all thyroid cancers
in the United States.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Cough
      * Coughing up blood
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Hoarseness or changing voice
      * Loud breathing
      * Lower neck lump, which often grows quickly 
      * Pain
      * Vocal cord paralysis
      * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam almost always shows a growth in the neck region.

      * An MRI or CT scan of the neck may show a tumor growing from the thyroid gland.
      * A thyroid biopsy makes the diagnosis.
      * An examination of the airway with a fiberoptic scope (laryngoscopy) may show a paralyzed vocal cord.
      * A thyroid scan shows this growth to be "cold," meaning it does not absorb a radioactive substance. 

Thyroid function blood tests are normal in most cases.

## Treatment

This type of cancer cannot be cured by surgery. Complete removal of the
thyroid gland does not prolong the lives of people who have this type of
cancer.

Of other treatment options, only radiation therapy combined with chemotherapy
has a significant benefit.

Surgery to place a tube in the throat to help with breathing (tracheostomy) or
in the stomach to help with eating (gastrostomy) may be needed during
treatment.

For some people, enrolling in a clinical trial of new thyroid cancer
treatments may be an option.

## Support Groups

You can often ease the stress of illness by joining a support group of people
sharing common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook with this disease is poor. Most people do not survive longer than
6 months because the disease is aggressive and there is a lack of effective
treatment options.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Spread of tumor within the neck 
      * Metastasis (spread) of cancer to other body tissues or organs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if there is a persistent lump or mass in the
neck, hoarseness, changing voice, cough, or coughing up blood.

## Alternative Names

Anaplastic carcinoma of the thyroid

## Images

      * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1204t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

National Cancer Institute website. Thyroid cancer treatment (adult) (PDQ) -
health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/thyroid/HealthProfessional. Updated
February 1, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

Smith PW, Hanks LR, Salomone LJ, Hanks JB. Thyroid. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 36.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

