Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000331.htm    
                                Description: Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid is the most common cancer of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is located inside the front of the lower neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid cancer - papillary carcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000331.htm

# Thyroid cancer - papillary carcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid is the most common cancer of the thyroid
gland. The thyroid gland is located inside the front of the lower neck.

## Causes

About 85% of all thyroid cancers diagnosed in the United States are the
papillary carcinoma type. It is more common in women than in men. It may occur
in childhood, but is most often seen in adults between ages 20 and 60.

The cause of this cancer is unknown. A genetic defect or family history of the
disease may also be a risk factor.

Radiation increases the risk of developing thyroid cancer. Exposure may occur
from:

      * High-dose external radiation treatments to the neck, especially during childhood, used to treat childhood cancer or some noncancerous childhood conditions
      * Radiation exposure from nuclear plant disasters 

Radiation given through a vein (through an IV) during medical tests and
treatments does not increase the risk of developing thyroid cancer.

## Symptoms

Thyroid cancer often begins as a small lump (nodule) in the thyroid gland.

While some small lumps may be cancer, most (90%) thyroid nodules are harmless
and are not cancerous.

Most of the time, there are no other symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

If you have a lump on your thyroid, your health care provider will order blood
tests and possibly an ultrasound of the thyroid gland.

If the ultrasound shows that the lump is less than 1 centimeter, a special
procedure called a fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) may be performed. This
test helps determine if the lump is cancerous.

CT scan of the neck may also be done to determine the size of the tumor.

Thyroid function tests are often normal in people with thyroid cancer.

## Treatment

There are three types of thyroid cancer treatment:

      * Surgery 
      * Radioactive iodine 
      * Medicine

Surgery is done to remove as much of the cancer as possible. The bigger the
lump, the more of the thyroid gland must be removed. Often, the entire gland
is taken out.

After the surgery, you may receive radioiodine therapy, which is often taken
by mouth. This substance kills any remaining thyroid tissue. It also helps
make medical images clearer, so doctors can see if there is any cancer left
behind or if it comes back later.

If surgery is not an option, external radiation therapy can be useful.

After surgery or radioiodine therapy, you will need to take medicine called
levothyroxine for the rest of your life. This replaces the hormone the thyroid
would normally make.

Your provider will likely have you take a blood test every several months to
check thyroid hormone levels. Other follow-up tests that may be done after
treatment for thyroid cancer include:

      * Ultrasound of the thyroid
      * An imaging test called a radioactive iodine (I-131) uptake scan
      * Repeat FNAB

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The survival rate for papillary thyroid cancer is excellent. More than 90% of
adults with this cancer survive at least 10 to 20 years. The prognosis is
better for people who are younger than 40 and for those with smaller tumors.

The following factors may decrease the survival rate:

      * Older than 55
      * Cancer that has spread to distant parts of the body
      * Cancer that has spread to soft tissue
      * Large tumor 

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Accidental removal of the parathyroid gland, which helps regulate blood calcium levels
      * Damage to a nerve that controls the vocal cords
      * Spreading of cancer to lymph nodes (rare)
      * Spreading of cancer to other sites (metastasis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a lump in your neck.

## Alternative Names

Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1204t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
      * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1205t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
      * ![Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1206t.jpg)Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan
      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Kwon D, Lee S. Invasive thyroid cancer. In: Myers EN, Snyderman CH, eds.
_Operative Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 82.

National Cancer Institute website. Thyroid cancer treatment (adult) (PDQ) â
health provisional version.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/thyroid/HealthProfessional. Updated
February 1, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

Thompson LDR. Malignant neoplasms of the thyroid gland. In: Thompson LDR,
Bishop JA, eds. _Head and Neck Pathology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 25.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

