Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003699.htm    
                                Description: The calcitonin blood test measures the level of the hormone calcitonin in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcitonin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003699.htm

# Calcitonin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The calcitonin blood test measures the level of the hormone calcitonin in the
blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is usually no special preparation needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Calcitonin is a hormone produced in C cells of the thyroid gland. The thyroid
gland is located inside the front of your lower neck. Calcitonin helps control
the breakdown and rebuilding of bone.

A common reason to have the test is if you have had surgery to remove a
thyroid tumor called medullary cancer. The test allows your health care
provider to evaluate if the tumor has spread (metastasized) or has come back
(tumor recurrence).

Your provider may also order a calcitonin test when you have symptoms of
medullary cancer of the thyroid or multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN)
syndrome, or a family history of these conditions. Calcitonin may also be
higher in other tumors, such as:

      * Insulinoma (tumor in the pancreas that produces too much insulin)
      * Lung cancer
      * VIPoma (cancer that usually grows from islet cells in the pancreas)

## Normal Results

A normal value is less than 10 pg/mL.

Women and men can have different normal values, with men having higher values.

Sometimes, calcitonin in the blood is checked several times after you are
given a shot (injection) of a special medicine that stimulates calcitonin
production.

You will need this extra test if your baseline calcitonin is normal, but your
provider suspects you have medullary cancer of the thyroid.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal level may indicate:

      * Insulinoma
      * Lung cancer
      * Medullary cancer of thyroid (most common)
      * VIPoma 

Higher-than-normal levels of calcitonin can also occur in people with kidney
disease, smokers, and higher body weight. Also, it increases when taking
certain medicines to stop stomach acid production.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum calcitonin

## References

Bringhurst FR, Demay MB, Kronenberg HM. Hormones and disorders of mineral
metabolism. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds.
_Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Calcitonin (thyrocalcitonin) - serum. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:276-277.

Findlay DM, Sexton PM, Martin TJ. Calcitonin. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

