Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001213.htm    
                                Description: Thyroid cancer is a cancer that starts in the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is located inside the front of your lower neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001213.htm

# Thyroid cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thyroid cancer is a cancer that starts in the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland
is located inside the front of your lower neck.

## Causes

Thyroid cancer can occur in people of any age.

Radiation increases the risk of developing thyroid cancer. Exposure may occur
from:

      * Radiation therapy to the neck (especially in childhood)
      * Radiation exposure from nuclear plant disasters 

Other risk factors are a family history of thyroid cancer and chronic goiter
(enlarged thyroid).

There are several types of thyroid cancer:

      * Anaplastic carcinoma (also called giant and spindle cell cancer) is the most dangerous form of thyroid cancer. It is rare, and spreads quickly.
      * Follicular tumor is more likely to come back and spread.
      * Medullary carcinoma is a cancer of non-thyroid cells that are normally present in the thyroid gland. This form of thyroid cancer tends to occur in families.
      * Papillary carcinoma is the most common type, and it usually affects women of childbearing age. It spreads slowly and is the least dangerous type of thyroid cancer. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary depending on the type of thyroid cancer, but may include:

      * Cough
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Enlargement of the thyroid gland
      * Hoarseness or changing voice
      * Neck swelling
      * Thyroid lump (nodule)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal a lump
in the thyroid, or swollen lymph nodes in the neck.

The following tests may be done:

      * Calcitonin blood test to check for medullary thyroid cancer
      * Laryngoscopy (looking inside the throat using a mirror or flexible tube called a laryngoscope placed through the mouth)
      * Thyroid biopsy
      * Thyroid scan
      * TSH, free T4 (blood tests for thyroid function)
      * Ultrasound of the thyroid
      * CT scan of the neck (to determine the extent of the cancerous mass)
      * PET scan

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the type of thyroid cancer. Treatment of most thyroid
cancer types is effective if diagnosed early.

Surgery is most often done. The entire thyroid gland is usually removed. If
your provider suspects that the cancer has spread to lymph nodes in the neck,
these will also be removed.

Radiation therapy may be done with or without surgery. It may be performed by:

      * Aiming external beam (x-ray) radiation at the thyroid
      * Taking radioactive iodine by mouth 

After treatment for thyroid cancer, you must take thyroid hormone pills for
the rest of your life. The dosage is usually slightly higher than what your
body needs. This helps keep the cancer from coming back. The pills also
replace the thyroid hormone your body needs to function normally.

If the cancer does not respond to surgery or radiation, and has spread to
other parts of the body, chemotherapy or targeted therapy may be used. These
are only effective for a small number of people.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Possible Complications

Complications of thyroid cancer may include:

      * Injury to the voice box and hoarseness after thyroid surgery
      * Low calcium level from accidental removal of the parathyroid glands during surgery
      * Spread of the cancer to the lungs, bones, or other parts of the body 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice a lump in your neck.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Awareness of risk (such as previous radiation
therapy to the neck) can allow earlier diagnosis and treatment.

Sometimes, people with family histories and genetic mutations related to
thyroid cancer will have their thyroid gland removed to prevent cancer.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - thyroid; Cancer - thyroid; Nodule - thyroid cancer; Papillary thyroid
carcinoma; Medullary thyroid carcinoma; Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma;
Follicular thyroid cancer

## Patient Instructions

      * Thyroid gland removal - discharge

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1204t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
      * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1205t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
      * ![Incision for thyroid gland surgery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8965t.jpg)Incision for thyroid gland surgery
      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

National Cancer Institute website. Thyroid cancer treatment (adult) (PDQ) -
health provisional version.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/thyroid/HealthProfessional. Updated
February 1, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

Smith PW, Hanks LR, Salomone LJ, Hanks JB. Thyroid. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 36.

Thompson LDR. Malignant neoplasms of the thyroid gland. In: Thompson LDR,
Bishop JA, eds. _Head and Neck Pathology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 25.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

