Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002933.htm    
                                Description: Thyroid gland removal is surgery to remove all or part of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland located inside the front of the lower neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid gland removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002933.htm

# Thyroid gland removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thyroid gland removal is surgery to remove all or part of the thyroid gland.
The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland located inside the front of the
lower neck.

The thyroid gland is part of the hormone (endocrine) system. It helps your
body regulate your metabolism.

## Description

Depending on the reason you are having your thyroid gland removed, the type of
thyroidectomy you have will be either a:

      * Total thyroidectomy, which removes the entire gland
      * Subtotal or partial thyroidectomy, which removes part of the thyroid gland 

You will have general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) for this surgery. In
rare cases, the surgery is done with local anesthesia and medicine to relax
you. You will be awake, but pain-free.

During the surgery:

      * The surgeon makes a horizontal cut in the front of your lower neck just above the collar bones.
      * All or part of the gland is removed through the cut.
      * The surgeon is careful not to damage the blood vessels and nerves in your neck.
      * A small tube (catheter) may be placed into the area to help drain blood and other fluids that build up. The drain will be removed in 1 or 2 days.
      * The cuts are closed with sutures (stitches). 

Surgery to remove your whole thyroid may take up to 4 hours. It may take less
time if only part of the thyroid is removed.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your doctor may recommend thyroid removal if you have any of the following:

      * A small thyroid growth (nodule or cyst)
      * A thyroid gland that is so overactive it is dangerous (thyrotoxicosis)
      * Cancer of the thyroid
      * Noncancerous (benign) tumors of the thyroid that are causing symptoms
      * Thyroid swelling (nontoxic goiter) that makes it hard for you to breathe or swallow

You may also have surgery if you have an overactive thyroid gland and do not
want to have radioactive iodine treatment, or you cannot be treated with
antithyroid medicines.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

      * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of thyroidectomy include:

      * Injury to the nerves in your vocal cords and larynx.
      * Bleeding and possible airway obstruction.
      * A sharp rise in thyroid hormone levels (only around the time of surgery).
      * Injury to the parathyroid glands (small glands near the thyroid) or to their blood supply. This can cause a temporary low level of calcium in your blood (hypocalcemia).
      * Too much thyroid hormone (thyroid storm). If you have an overactive thyroid gland, you will be treated with medicine. 

## Before the Procedure

During the weeks before your surgery:

      * You may need to have tests that show exactly where the abnormal thyroid growth is located. This will help the surgeon find the growth during surgery. You may have a CT scan, ultrasound, or other imaging tests.
      * Your doctor may also do a fine needle aspiration to find out if the growth is noncancerous or cancerous. Before surgery, your vocal cord function may be checked.
      * You may also need thyroid medicine or iodine treatments 1 to 2 weeks before your surgery.

Several days to a week before surgery:

      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil), naproxen (Aleve), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), among others.
      * Fill any prescriptions for pain medicine and calcium you will need after surgery.
      * Tell your health care provider about all the medicines you take, even those bought without a prescription. This includes herbs and supplements. Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help.

On the day of surgery:

      * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
      * Take any medicines that your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Be sure to arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You will probably go home the day of or the day after surgery. In rare cases,
you may need to spend up to 3 days in the hospital. You must be able to
swallow liquids before you can go home.

Your provider may check the calcium level in your blood after surgery. This is
done more often when the whole thyroid gland is removed.

You may have some pain after surgery. Ask your provider for instructions on
how to take pain medicines after you go home.

It should take about 3 to 4 weeks for you to fully recover.

Follow any instructions for taking care of yourself after you go home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome of this surgery is usually excellent. Most people need to take thyroid
hormone pills (thyroid hormone replacement) for the rest of their lives when
the whole gland is removed.

## Alternative Names

Total thyroidectomy; Partial thyroidectomy; Thyroidectomy; Subtotal
thyroidectomy; Thyroid cancer - thyroidectomy; Papillary cancer -
thyroidectomy; Goiter - thyroidectomy; Thyroid nodules - thyroidectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open
      * Thyroid gland removal - discharge

## Images

      * ![Child thyroid anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9019t.jpg)Child thyroid anatomy
      * ![Thyroidectomy - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/14058t.jpg)Thyroidectomy - series
      * ![Incision for thyroid gland surgery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8965t.jpg)Incision for thyroid gland surgery

## References

Kaplan EL, Angelos P, James BC, Nagar S, Grogan RH. Surgery of the thyroid.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 96.

Smith PW, Hanks LR, Salomone LJ, Hanks JB. Thyroid. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 36.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

