Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000374.htm    
                                Description: Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is cancer of the thyroid gland that starts in cells that release a hormone called calcitonin. These cells are called &quot;C&quot; cells. The thyroid gland is located inside the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid cancer - medullary carcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000374.htm

# Thyroid cancer - medullary carcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is cancer of the thyroid gland that starts
in cells that release a hormone called calcitonin. These cells are called "C"
cells. The thyroid gland is located inside the front of your lower neck.

## Causes

The cause of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid (MTC) is unknown. MTC is very
rare. It can occur in children and adults.

Unlike other types of thyroid cancer, MTC is less likely to be caused by
radiation therapy to the neck given to treat other cancers during childhood.

There are two forms of MTC:

      * Sporadic MTC, which does not run in families. Most MTCs are sporadic. This form mainly affects older adults. 
      * Inherited MTC, which runs in families. 

You have an increased risk for this type of cancer if you have:

      * A family history of MTC 
      * A family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN)
      * Had prior history of pheochromocytoma, mucosal neuromas, hyperparathyroidism or pancreatic endocrine tumors

Other types of thyroid cancer include:

      * Anaplastic carcinoma of the thyroid
      * Follicular tumor of the thyroid
      * Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid
      * Thyroid lymphoma

## Symptoms

MTC often begins as a small lump (nodule) in the thyroid gland. There may also
be lymph node swelling in the neck. As a result, symptoms may include:

      * Swelling of the neck
      * Hoarseness
      * Breathing problems due to narrowing of airways
      * Cough
      * Cough with blood
      * Diarrhea due to high calcitonin level

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms and medical history.

Tests that may be used to diagnose MTC include:

      * Calcitonin blood test
      * CEA blood test
      * Genetic testing
      * Thyroid biopsy
      * Ultrasound of the thyroid
      * PET scan

People with MTC should be checked for certain other tumors, especially
pheochromocytoma.

## Treatment

Treatment involves surgery to remove the thyroid gland and surrounding lymph
nodes. Because this is an uncommon tumor, surgery should be performed by a
surgeon who is familiar with this type of cancer and experienced with the
operation required.

Chemotherapy and radiation do not work very well for this type of cancer.
Radiation is used in some people after surgery. New treatments are being
investigated in clinical trials. Your provider can tell you more about these,
if needed.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with medullary carcinoma of the thyroid live at least 5 years after
diagnosis, depending upon the stage of the cancer. Women have better prognosis
than men. The 10 year survival rate is 75%.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cancer spreads to other areas of the body 
      * Parathyroid glands are accidentally removed during surgery 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid.

## Prevention

Prevention may not be possible. But, being aware of your risk factors,
especially your family history, may allow for early diagnosis and treatment.
For people who have a very strong family history of MTC, the option to remove
the thyroid gland may be recommended. You should carefully discuss this option
with a doctor who is very familiar with the disease.

## Alternative Names

Thyroid - medullary carcinoma; Cancer - thyroid (medullary carcinoma); MTC;
Thyroid nodule - medullary

## Images

      * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1204t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Thyroid cancer treatment (adult) (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/thyroid/hp/thyroid-
treatment-pdq. Updated February 1, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

Smith PW, Hanks LR, Salomone LJ, Hanks JB. Thyroid. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 36.

Wells SA. Medullary thyroid carcinoma. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 246.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidCancer_thumb.jpg)Thyroid Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

