Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003390.htm    
                                Description: Tympanometry is a test used to detect problems in the middle ear.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tympanometry

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003390.htm

# Tympanometry

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tympanometry is a test used to detect problems in the middle ear.

## How the Test is Performed

Before the test, your health care provider will look inside your ear to make
sure nothing is blocking the eardrum.

Next, a device is placed into your ear. This device changes the air pressure
in your ear and makes the eardrum move back and forth. A machine records the
results on graphs called tympanograms.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not move, speak, or swallow during the test. Such movements can
change the pressure in the middle ear and give incorrect test results.

The sounds heard during the test may be loud. This may be startling. You will
need to try very hard to stay calm and not get startled during the test. If
your child is to have this test done, it may be helpful to show how the test
is done using a doll. The more your child knows what to expect and why the
test is done, the less nervous your child will be.

## How the Test will Feel

There may be some discomfort while the probe is in the ear, but no harm will
result. You will hear a loud tone and feel pressure in your ear as the
measurements are taken.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test measures how your ear reacts to sound and different pressures.

## Normal Results

The pressure inside the middle ear can vary by a very small amount. The
eardrum should look smooth.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Tympanometry may reveal any of the following:

      * A tumor in the middle ear
      * Fluid in the middle ear
      * Impacted ear wax
      * Lack of contact between the conduction bones of the middle ear
      * Perforated eardrum
      * Scarring of the eardrum

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Tympanogram; Otitis media - tympanometry; Effusion - tympanometry; Immittance
testing

## Images

      * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
      * ![Otoscope examination](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8771t.jpg)Otoscope examination

## References

Bauer CA, Jenkins HA. Otologic symptoms and syndromes. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 156.

Kerschner JE, Preciado D. Otitis media. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 640.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

