Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000979.htm    
                                Description: The ear canal is lined with hair follicles. The ear canal also has glands that produce a waxy oil called cerumen. The wax will most often make its way to the opening of the ear. There it will fall out    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear wax

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000979.htm

# Ear wax

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ear canal is lined with hair follicles. The ear canal also has glands that
produce a waxy oil called cerumen. The wax will most often make its way to the
opening of the ear. There it will fall out or be removed by washing.

Wax can build up and block the ear canal. Wax blockage is one of the most
common causes of hearing loss.

![Wax blockage in the
ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/10033.jpg)

## Causes

Ear wax protects the ear by:

      * Trapping and preventing dust, bacteria, and other germs and small objects from entering and damaging the ear 
      * Protecting the delicate skin of the ear canal from getting irritated when water is in the canal

In some people, the glands produce more wax than can be easily removed from
the ear. This extra wax may harden in the ear canal and block the ear. When
you try to clean the ear, you may instead push wax deeper and block the ear
canal. For this reason, health care providers recommend against trying to
reach into your own ear to clean it.

## Symptoms

Some of the common symptoms are:

      * Earache
      * Fullness in the ear or a sensation that the ear is plugged
      * Noises in the ear (tinnitus)
      * Partial hearing loss, may get worse

## Treatment

Most cases of ear wax blockage can be treated at home. The following remedies
can be used to soften wax in the ear:

      * Baby oil
      * Commercial drops
      * Glycerin
      * Mineral oil
      * Water 

Another method is to wash out the wax.

      * Use body-temperature water (cooler or warmer water may cause brief but severe dizziness or vertigo).
      * Hold your head upright and straighten the ear canal by holding the outside ear and gently pulling upward.
      * Use a syringe (you can buy one at the store) to gently direct a small stream of water against the ear canal wall next to the wax plug.
      * Tip your head to allow the water to drain. You may need to repeat irrigation several times. 

To avoid damaging your ear or causing an infection:

      * Never irrigate or use drops to soften the wax in the ear if the eardrum may have a hole in it or you have had recent ear surgery.
      * Do not irrigate the ear with a jet irrigator designed for cleaning teeth (such as a WaterPik). 

After the wax is removed, dry the ear thoroughly. You may use a few drops of
alcohol in the ear or a hair dryer set on low to help dry the ear.

You may clean the outer ear canal by using a cloth or paper tissue wrapped
around your finger. Mineral oil can be used to moisturize the ear and prevent
the wax from drying.

Do not clean your ears too often or too hard. Ear wax also helps protect your
ears. Never try to clean the ear by putting any object, such as a cotton swab,
into the ear canal.

If you cannot remove the wax plug or you have discomfort, consult a health
care provider, who may remove the wax by:

      * Repeating the irrigation attempts
      * Suctioning the ear canal
      * Using a small device called a curette
      * Using a microscope to help 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The ear may become blocked with wax again in the future. Hearing loss is often
temporary. In most cases, hearing returns completely after the blockage is
removed. Hearing aid users should have their ear canal checked for excess wax
every 3 to 6 months.

Rarely, trying to remove ear wax may cause an infection in the ear canal. This
can also damage the eardrum.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if your ears are blocked with wax and you are unable to
remove the wax.

Also call if you have an ear wax blockage and you develop new symptoms, such
as:

      * Drainage from the ear
      * Ear pain
      * Fever
      * Hearing loss that continues after you clean the wax

## Alternative Names

Ear impaction; Cerumen impaction; Ear blockage; Hearing loss - ear wax

## Images

      * ![Wax blockage in the ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10033t.jpg)Wax blockage in the ear
      * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy
      * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy

## References

Lee DJ, Roberts D. Topical therapies for external ear disorders. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 138.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 18.

Riviello RJ. Otolaryngologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen
TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and
Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 63.

Schwartz SR, Magit AE, Rosenfeld RM, Ballachanda BB, et al. Clinical practice
guideline (update): earwax (cerumen impaction). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2017;156(1_suppl):S1-S29. PMID: 28045591 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28045591.

Whitaker M. Office-based procedures in otology. In: Myers EN, Snyderman CH,
eds. _Operative Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 125.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 10/01/2018.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

