Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001635.htm    
                                Description: A glomus tympanum tumor is a tumor of the middle ear and bone behind the ear (mastoid).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glomus tympanum tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001635.htm

# Glomus tympanum tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A glomus tympanum tumor is a tumor of the middle ear and bone behind the ear
(mastoid).

## Causes

A glomus tympanum tumor grows in the temporal bone of the skull, behind the
eardrum (tympanic membrane).

This area contains nerve fibers (glomus bodies) that normally respond to
changes in body temperature or blood pressure.

These tumors most often occur late in life, around age 60 or 70, but they can
appear at any age.

The cause of a glomus tympanum tumor is unknown. In most cases, there are no
known risk factors. Glomus tumors have been associated with changes
(mutations) in a gene responsible for the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase
(SDHD).

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Hearing problems or loss
      * Ringing in the ear (pulsatile tinnitus)
      * Weakness or loss of movement in the face (facial nerve palsy) 

## Exams and Tests

Glomus tympanum tumors are diagnosed by a physical exam. They may be seen in
the ear or behind the eardrum.

Diagnosis also involves scans, including:

      * CT scan
      * MRI scan

## Treatment

Glomus tympanum tumors are rarely cancerous and do not tend to spread to other
parts of the body. However, treatment may be needed to relieve symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have surgery tend to do well. More than 90% of people with glomus
tympanum tumors are cured.

## Possible Complications

The most common complication is hearing loss.

Nerve damage, which may be caused by the tumor itself or damage during
surgery, rarely occurs. Nerve damage can lead to facial paralysis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice:

      * Difficulty with hearing or swallowing
      * Problems with the muscles in your face
      * Pulsing sensation in your ear

## Alternative Names

Paraganglioma - glomus tympanum

## References

Marsh M, Jenkins HA. Temporal bone neoplasms and lateral cranial base surgery.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 176.

Rucker JC, Thurtell MJ. Cranial neuropathies. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 104.

Zanotti B, Verlicchi A, Gerosa M. Glomus tumors. In: Winn HR, ed. Y _oumans
and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
156.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

