Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007322.htm    
                                Description: Hearing loss is not being able to hear sound in one or both ears. Infants may lose all of their hearing or just part of it.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hearing loss - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007322.htm

# Hearing loss - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hearing loss is not being able to hear sound in one or both ears. Infants may
lose all of their hearing or just part of it.

## Causes

Although it is not common, some infants may have some hearing loss at birth.
Hearing loss can also develop in children who had normal hearing as infants.

      * The loss can occur in one or both ears. It may be mild, moderate, severe, or profound. Profound hearing loss is what most people call deafness.
      * Sometimes, hearing loss gets worse over time. Other times, it stays stable and does not get worse. 

Risk factors for infant hearing loss include:

      * Family history of hearing loss
      * Low birth weight 

Hearing loss may occur when there is a problem in the outer or middle ear.
These problems may slow or prevent sound waves from passing through. They
include:

      * Birth defects that cause changes in the structure of the ear canal or middle ear
      * Buildup of ear wax
      * Buildup of fluid behind the eardrum
      * Injury to or rupture of the eardrum
      * Objects stuck in the ear canal
      * Scar on the eardrum from many infections 

Another type of hearing loss is due to a problem with the inner ear. It may
occur when the tiny hair cells (nerve endings) that move sound through the ear
are damaged. This type of hearing loss can be caused by:

      * Exposure to certain toxic chemicals or medicines while in the womb or after birth
      * Genetic disorders
      * Infections the mother passes to her baby in the womb (such as toxoplasmosis, measles, or herpes)
      * Infections that can damage the brain after birth, such as meningitis or measles
      * Problems with the structure of the inner ear
      * Tumors 

Central hearing loss results from damage to the auditory nerve itself, or the
brain pathways that lead to the nerve. Central hearing loss is rare in infants
and children.

## Symptoms

Signs of hearing loss in infants vary by age. For example:

      * A newborn baby with hearing loss may not startle when there is a loud noise nearby.
      * Older infants, who should respond to familiar voices, may show no reaction when spoken to.
      * Children should be using single words by 15 months, and simple 2-word sentences by age 2. If they do not reach these milestones, the cause may be hearing loss.

Some children may not be diagnosed with hearing loss until they are in school.
This is true even if they were born with hearing loss. Inattention and falling
behind in class work may be signs of undiagnosed hearing loss.

## Exams and Tests

Hearing loss makes a baby unable to hear sounds below a certain level. A baby
with normal hearing will hear sounds below that level.

The health care provider will examine your child. The exam may show bone
problems or signs of genetic changes that may cause hearing loss.

The provider will use an instrument called an otoscope to see inside the
baby's ear canal. This allows the provider to see the eardrum and find
problems that may cause hearing loss.

Two common tests are used to screen newborn infants for hearing loss:

      * Auditory brain stem response (ABR) test. This test uses patches, called electrodes, to see how the auditory nerve reacts to sound.
      * Otoacoustic emissions (OAE) test. Microphones placed into the baby's ears detect nearby sounds. The sounds should echo in the ear canal. If there is no echo, it is a sign of hearing loss. 

Older babies and young children can be taught to respond to sounds through
play. These tests, known as visual response audiometry and play audiometry,
can better determine the child's range of hearing.

## Treatment

Over 30 states in the United States require newborn hearing screenings.
Treating hearing loss early can allow many infants to develop normal language
skills without delay. In infants born with hearing loss, treatments should
start as early as age 6 months.

Treatment depends on the baby's overall health and the cause of hearing loss.
Treatment may include:

      * Speech therapy 
      * Learning sign language 
      * Cochlear implant (for those with profound sensorineural hearing loss) 

Treating the cause of hearing loss may include:

      * Medications for infections
      * Ear tubes for repeated ear infections
      * Surgery to correct structural problems 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It is often possible to treat hearing loss that is caused by problems in the
middle ear with medicines or surgery. There is no cure for hearing loss caused
by damage to the inner ear or nerves.

How well the baby does depends on the cause and severity of the hearing loss.
Advances in hearing aids and other devices, as well as speech therapy allow
many children to develop normal language skills at the same age as their peers
with normal hearing. Even infants with profound hearing loss can do well with
the right combination of treatments.

If the baby has a disorder that affects more than hearing, the outlook depends
on what other symptoms and problems the baby has.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your baby or young child displays signs of hearing loss,
such as not reacting to loud noises, not making or mimicking noises, or not
speaking at the expected age.

If your child has a cochlear implant, call your providerÂ right awayÂ if your
child develops a fever, stiff neck, headache, or an ear infection.

## Prevention

It is not possible to prevent all cases of hearing loss in infants.

Women who are planning to become pregnant should make sure they are current on
all vaccinations.

Pregnant women should check with their provider before taking any medications.
If you are pregnant, avoid activities that can expose your baby to dangerous
infections, such as toxoplasmosis.

If you or your partner has a family history of hearing loss, you may want to
get genetic counseling before becoming pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Deafness - infants; Hearing impairment - infants; Conductive hearing loss -
infants; Sensorineural hearing loss - infants; Central hearing loss - infants

## Images

      * ![Hearing test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22715t.jpg)Hearing test

## References

Eggermont JJ. Early diagnosis and prevention of hearing loss. In: Eggermont
JJ, ed. _Hearing Loss_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Haddad J, Keesecker S. Hearing loss. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 637.

Handelsman JA, Van Riper LA, Lesperance MM. Early detection and diagnosis of
hearing impairment. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund LJ, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery. _6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 191.

O'Handley JG. Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: ElsevierÂ
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hearing Problems in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingProblemsinChildren_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Problems in Children _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

