Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001425.htm    
                                Description: Facial nerve palsy due to birth trauma is the loss of controllable (voluntary) muscle movement in an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facial nerve palsy due to birth trauma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001425.htm

# Facial nerve palsy due to birth trauma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Facial nerve palsy due to birth trauma is the loss of controllable (voluntary)
muscle movement in an infant's face due to pressure on the facial nerve in the
face just before or at the time of birth.

## Causes

An infant's facial nerve is also called the seventh cranial nerve. It can be
damaged just before or at the time of delivery.

Most of the time the cause is unknown. But a difficult delivery, with or
without the use of an instrument called forceps, may lead to this condition.

Some factors that can cause birth trauma (injury) include:

      * Large baby size (may be seen if the mother has diabetes)
      * Long pregnancy or labor
      * Use of epidural anesthesia
      * Use of a medicine to cause labor and stronger contractions 

Most of the time, these factors do not lead to facial nerve palsy or birth
trauma.

## Symptoms

The most common form of facial nerve palsy due to birth trauma involves only
the lower part of the facial nerve. This part controls the muscles around the
lips. The muscle weakness is mainly noticeable when the infant cries.

The newborn infant may have the following symptoms:

      * Eyelid may not close on affected side
      * Lower face (below eyes) appears uneven during crying
      * Mouth does not move down the same way on both sides while crying
      * No movement (paralysis) on the affected side of the face (from the forehead to the chin in severe cases)

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam is usually all that is needed to diagnose this condition. In
rare cases, a nerve conduction test is needed. This test can pinpoint the
exact location of the nerve injury.

Brain imaging tests are not needed unless your health care provider thinks
there is another problem (such as a tumor or stroke).

## Treatment

In most cases, the infant will be closely monitored to see if the paralysis
goes away on its own.

If the baby's eye does not close all the way, an eyepad and eyedrops will be
used to protect the eye.

Surgery may be needed to relieve pressure on the nerve.

Infants with permanent paralysis need special therapy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition usually goes away on its own in a few months.

## Possible Complications

In some cases, the muscles on the affected side of the face become permanently
paralyzed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The provider will usually diagnose this condition while the infant is in the
hospital. Mild cases involving just the lower lip may not be noticed at birth.
A parent, grandparent, or other person may notice the problem later.

If the movement of your infant's mouth looks different on each side when they
cry, you should make an appointment with your child's provider.

## Prevention

There is no guaranteed way to prevent pressure injuries in the unborn child.
The proper use of forceps and improved childbirth methods have reduced the
rate of facial nerve palsy.

## Alternative Names

Seventh cranial nerve palsy due to birth trauma; Facial palsy - birth trauma;
Facial palsy - neonate; Facial palsy - infant

## References

Balest AL, Riley MM, Bogen DL. Neonatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Harbert MJ, Pardo AC. Neonatal nervous system trauma. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal
S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Kersten RC, Collin R. Lids: congenital and acquired abnormalities - practical
management. In: Lambert SR, Lyons CJ, eds. _Taylor & Hoyt's Pediatric
Ophthalmology and Strabismus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
19.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Facial Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FacialInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Facial
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

