Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001062.htm    
                                Description: Facial trauma is an injury of the face.Â It may include the facial bones such as the upper jaw bone (maxilla).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facial trauma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001062.htm

# Facial trauma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Facial trauma is an injury of the face.Â It may include the facial bones such
as the upper jaw bone (maxilla).

## Causes

Facial injuries can affect the upper jaw, lower jaw, cheek, nose, eye socket,
or forehead. They may be caused by blunt force or be the result of a wound.

Common causes of injury to the face include:

      * Car and motorcycle crashes
      * Wounds 
      * Sports injuries
      * Violence 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Changes in feeling over the face
      * Deformed or uneven face or facial bones
      * Difficulty breathing through the nose due to swelling and bleeding
      * Double vision
      * Missing teeth
      * Swelling or bruising around the eyes that may cause vision problems 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which may show:

      * Bleeding from the nose, eyes, or mouth
      * Nasal blockage
      * Breaks in the skin (lacerations)
      * Bruising around the eyes or widening of the distance between the eyes, which may mean injury to the bones between the eye sockets
      * Changes in vision or the movement of the eyes
      * Improperly aligned upper and lower teeth

The following may suggest bone fractures:

      * Abnormal feelings on the cheek
      * Irregularities of the face that can be felt by touching
      * Movement of the upper jaw when the head is still

A CT scan of the head and bones of the face may be done.

## Treatment

Surgery is done if the injury prevents normal functioning or causes a major
deformity.

The goal of treatment is to:

      * Control bleeding
      * Create a clear airway
      * Treat the fracture and fix broken bone segments 
      * Prevent scars, if possible
      * Prevent long-term double vision or sunken eyes or cheek bones
      * Rule out other injuries

Treatment should be done as soon as possible if the person is stable and does
not have a neck fracture.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people do very well with proper treatment. More surgery may be needed in
6 to 12 months to correct changes in appearance.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bleeding
      * Uneven face
      * Infection
      * Brain and nervous system problems
      * Numbness or weakness
      * Loss of vision or double vision 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a severe injury to your face.

## Prevention

Wear seat belts while driving.

Use protective head gear when doing work or activities that could injure the
face.

## Alternative Names

Maxillofacial injury; Midface trauma; Facial injury; LeFort injuries

## References

Kellman RM. Maxillofacial trauma. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 23.

Mayersak RJ. Facial trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 35.

Neligan PC, Buck DW, Facial injuries. In: Neligan PC, Buck DW, eds. _Core
Procedures in Plastic Surgery_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
9.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Facial Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FacialInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Facial
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

