Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hypothyroidism.html    
                                Description: Hypothyroidism happens when your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone to meet your body&#39;s needs. Hypothyroidism is more common in women.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hypothyroidism

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hypothyroidism.html

#  Hypothyroidism

Also called: Underactive thyroid

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is hypothyroidism?

Hypothyroidism, or underactive thyroid, happens when your thyroid gland
doesn't make enough thyroid hormones to meet your body's needs.

Your thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck. It
makes hormones that control the way the body uses energy. These hormones
affect nearly every organ in your body and control many of your body's most
important functions. For example, they affect your breathing, heart rate,
weight, digestion, and moods. Without enough thyroid hormones, many of your
body's functions slow down. But there are treatments that can help.

### What causes hypothyroidism?

Hypothyroidism has several causes. They include

    * Hashimoto's disease, an autoimmune disorder where your immune system attacks your thyroid. This is the most common cause.
    * Thyroiditis, inflammation of the thyroid
    * Congenital hypothyroidism, hypothyroidism that is present at birth
    * Surgical removal of part or all of the thyroid
    * Radiation treatment of the thyroid
    * Certain medicines
    * In rare cases, a pituitary disease or too much or too little iodine in your diet

### Who is at risk for hypothyroidism?

You are at higher risk for hypothyroidism if you

    * Are a woman
    * Are older than age 60
    * Have had a thyroid problem before, such as a goiter
    * Have had surgery to correct a thyroid problem
    * Have received radiation treatment to the thyroid, neck, or chest
    * Have a family history of thyroid disease
    * Were pregnant or had a baby in the past 6 months
    * Have Turner syndrome, a genetic disorder that affects females
    * Have pernicious anemia, in which the body cannot make enough healthy red blood cells because it does not have enough vitamin B12
    * Have Sjogren's syndrome, a disease that causes dry eyes and mouth
    * Have type 1 diabetes
    * Have rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune disease that affects the joints
    * Have lupus, a chronic autoimmune disease

### What are the symptoms of hypothyroidism?

The symptoms of hypothyroidism can vary from person to person and may include

    * Fatigue
    * Weight gain
    * A puffy face
    * Trouble tolerating cold
    * Joint and muscle pain
    * Constipation
    * Dry skin
    * Dry, thinning hair
    * Decreased sweating
    * Heavy or irregular menstrual periods
    * Fertility problems in women
    * Depression
    * Slowed heart rate
    * Goiter, an enlarged thyroid that may cause your neck to look swollen. Sometimes it can cause trouble with breathing or swallowing.

Because hypothyroidism develops slowly, many people don't notice symptoms of
the disease for months or even years.

### What other problems can hypothyroidism cause?

Hypothyroidism can contribute to high cholesterol. In rare cases, untreated
hypothyroidism can cause myxedema coma. This is a condition in which your
body's functions slow down to the point that it becomes life-threatening.

During pregnancy, hypothyroidism can cause complications, such as premature
birth, high blood pressure in pregnancy, and miscarriage. It can also slow the
baby's growth and development.

### How is hypothyroidism diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider

    * Will take your medical history, including asking about symptoms
    * Will do a physical exam
    * May do thyroid tests, such as 
      * TSH, T3, T4, and thyroid antibody blood tests
      * Imaging tests, such as a thyroid scan, ultrasound, or radioactive iodine uptake test. A radioactive iodine uptake test measures how much radioactive iodine your thyroid takes up from your blood after you swallow a small amount of it.

### What are the treatments for hypothyroidism?

The treatment for hypothyroidism is medicine to replace the hormone that your
own thyroid can no longer make. About 6 to 8 weeks after you start taking the
medicine, you will get a blood test to check your thyroid hormone level. Your
health care provider will adjust your dose if needed. Each time your dose is
adjusted, you'll have another blood test. Once you find the right dose, you
will probably get a blood test in 6 months. After that, you will need the test
once a year.

If you take your medicine according to the instructions, you usually should be
able to control the hypothyroidism. You should never stop taking your medicine
without talking with your health care provider first.

If you have Hashimoto's disease or other types of autoimmune thyroid
disorders, you may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Talk to
your health care provider about which foods, supplements, and medicines you
need to avoid.

Women need more iodine when they are pregnant because the baby gets iodine
from the mother's diet. If you are pregnant, talk with your health care
provider about how much iodine you need.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Hypothyroidism (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hypothyroidism (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
    * Hypothyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF
    * Hypothyroidism (American Thyroid Association) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Thyroid Function Tests (American Thyroid Association) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Scan and Uptake ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Thyroxine (T4) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Triiodothyronine (T3) Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Thyroid Hormone Treatment (American Thyroid Association) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Hypothyroidism: Can It Cause Peripheral Neuropathy? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hypothyroidism: Does It Cause Joint Pain? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Iodine Deficiency (American Thyroid Association) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid and Weight (American Thyroid Association) Also in Spanish
    * Wilson's Temperature Syndrome (Hormone Health Network)

## Specifics

    * Hashimoto's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: congenital hypothyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Hashimoto thyroiditis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypothyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Thyroiditis, Autoimmune ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Can hypothyroidism be a protective factor for hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis?
    * Article: European Society of Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline: Endocrine work-up in obesity.
    * Article: Thyroid replacement therapy, thyroid stimulating hormone concentrations, and long term health...
    * Hypothyroidism -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Thyroid Association
    * Find an Endocrinologist (Hormone Health Network)
    * Find an Endocrinology - Thyroid Specialist (American Thyroid Association)
    * Hormone Health Network
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Congenital Hypothyroidism (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) \- In English and Spanish Also in Spanish
    * Hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's Thyroiditis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Hashimoto's Disease (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Hypothyroidism and Pregnancy (Hormone Health Network)

## Patient Handouts

    * Chronic thyroiditis (Hashimoto disease) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hashimoto's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF
    * Hypothyroidism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neonatal hypothyroidism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Silent thyroiditis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Subacute thyroiditis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * T4 test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * TSH test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Chronic thyroiditis (Hashimoto disease)
    * Factitious hyperthyroidism
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Neonatal hypothyroidism
    * Silent thyroiditis
    * Subacute thyroiditis
    * T4 test
    * Thyroid scan
    * TSH test

## Related Health Topics

    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Thyroid Cancer
    * Thyroid Diseases
    * Thyroid Tests

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hypothyroidism is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 11 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 21 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

