Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003028.htm    
                                Description: Facial paralysis occurs when a person is no longer able to move some or all of the muscles on one or both sides of the face.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facial paralysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003028.htm

# Facial paralysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Facial paralysis occurs when a person is no longer able to move some or all of
the muscles on one or both sides of the face.

## Causes

Facial paralysis is almost always caused by:

      * Damage or swelling of the facial nerve, which carries signals from the brain to the muscles of the face
      * Damage to the area of the brain that sends signals to the muscles of the face 

In people who are otherwise healthy, facial paralysis is often due to Bell
palsy. This is a condition in which the facial nerve becomes inflamed.

Stroke may cause facial paralysis. With a stroke, other muscles on one side of
the body may also be involved.

Facial paralysis that is due to a brain tumor usually develops slowly.
Symptoms can include headaches, seizures, or hearing loss.

In newborns, facial paralysis may be caused by trauma during birth.

Other causes include:

      * Infection of the brain or surrounding tissues
      * Lyme disease
      * Sarcoidosis
      * Tumor that presses on the facial nerve 

## Home Care

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to take care of
yourself at home. Take any medicines as directed.

If the eye cannot fully close, the cornea must be protected from drying out
with prescription eye drops or gel.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have weakness or numbness in your face. Seek
emergency medical help right away if you have these symptoms along with a
severe headache, seizure, or blindness.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your medical
history and symptoms, including:

      * Are both sides of your face affected?
      * Have you recently been sick or injured?
      * What other symptoms do you have? For example, drooling, excessive tears from one eye, headaches, seizures, vision problems, weakness, or paralysis. 

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Blood tests, including blood sugar, CBC, (ESR), Lyme test
      * CT scan of the head
      * Electromyography
      * MRI of the head

Treatment depends on the cause. Follow your provider's treatment
recommendations.

The provider may refer you to a physical, speech, or occupational therapist.
If facial paralysis from Bell palsy lasts for more than 6 to 12 months,
plastic surgery may be recommended to help the eye close and improve the
appearance of the face.

## Alternative Names

Paralysis of the face

## Images

      * ![Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1111t.jpg)Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid
      * ![Facial drooping](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9101t.jpg)Facial drooping

## References

Mattox DE. Clinical disorders of the facial nerve. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 170.

Meyers SL. Acute facial paralysis. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:671-672.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Facial Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FacialInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Facial
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

