Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003027.htm    
                                Description: Face pain may be dull and throbbing or an intense, stabbing discomfort in the face or forehead. It can occur in one or both sides.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Face pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003027.htm

# Face pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Face pain may be dull and throbbing or an intense, stabbing discomfort in the
face or forehead. It can occur in one or both sides.

## Causes

Pain that starts in the face may be caused by a nerve problem, injury, or
infection. Face pain may also begin in other places in the body.

      * Abscessed tooth (ongoing throbbing pain on one side of the lower face that gets worse with eating or touching)
      * Cluster headache
      * Herpes zoster (shingles) or herpes simplex (cold sores) infection
      * Injury to the face
      * Migraine
      * Myofascial pain syndrome
      * Sinusitis or sinus infection (dull pain and tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones that gets worse when you bend forward)
      * Tic douloureux
      * Temporomandibular joint dysfunction syndrome 

Sometimes the reason for the face pain is unknown.

## Home Care

Your treatment will be based on the cause of your pain.

Painkillers may provide temporary relief. If the pain is severe or does not go
away, call your primary health care provider or dentist.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Face pain is accompanied by chest, shoulder, neck, or arm pain. This could mean a heart attack. Call your local emergency number (such as 911). 
      * Pain is throbbing, worse on one side of the face, and aggravated by eating. Call a dentist. 
      * Pain is persistent, unexplained, or accompanied by other unexplained symptoms. Call your primary provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

If you have an emergency condition (such as a possible heart attack), you will
first be stabilized. Then, the provider will ask about your symptoms and
medical history and do a physical exam. You will be referred to a dentist for
tooth problems.

You may have the following tests:

      * Dental x-rays (if a tooth problem is suspected)
      * ECG (if heart problems are suspected)
      * Tonometry (if glaucoma is suspected)
      * X-rays of the sinuses

Neurological tests will be performed if nerve damage could be a problem.

## References

Bartleson JD, Black DF, Swanson JW. Cranial and facial pain. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

Digre KB. Headaches and other head pain. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 370.

Numikko TJ, O'Neill F. Evidence-based approach to the treatment of facial
pain. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 170.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Facial Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FacialInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Facial
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

