Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000283.htm    
                                Description: Esophageal cancer is cancer that starts in the esophagus. This is the tube through which food moves from the mouth to the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000283.htm

# Esophageal cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophageal cancer is cancer that starts in the esophagus. This is the tube
through which food moves from the mouth to the stomach.

## Causes

Esophageal cancer is not common in the United States. It occurs most often in
men over age 50 years.

There are two main types of esophageal cancer; squamous cell carcinoma and
adenocarcinoma. These two types look different from each other under the
microscope.

Squamous cell esophageal cancer is linked to smoking and drinking too much
alcohol.

Adenocarcinoma is the more common type of esophageal cancer. Having Barrett
esophagus increases the risk of this type of cancer. Acid reflux disease
(gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD) can develop into Barrett esophagus.
Other risk factors include smoking, being male, or being obese.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Backward movement of food through the esophagus and possibly mouth (regurgitation)
      * Chest pain not related to eating
      * Difficulty swallowing solids or liquids
      * Heartburn
      * Vomiting blood
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

Tests used to help diagnose esophageal cancer may include:

      * Series of x-rays taken to examine the esophagus (barium swallow)
      * Chest MRI or thoracic CT (usually used to help determine the stage of the disease)
      * Endoscopic ultrasound (also sometimes used to determine the stage of disease)
      * Test to examine and remove a sample of the lining of the esophagus (esophagogastroduodenoscopy, EGD)
      * PET scan (sometimes useful for determining the stage of disease, and whether surgery is possible) 

Stool testing may show small amounts of blood in the stool.

## Treatment

EGD will be used to obtain a tissue sample from the esophagus to diagnose
cancer.

When the cancer is only in the esophagus and has not spread, surgery will be
done. The cancer and part, or all, of the esophagus is removed. The surgery
may be done using:

      * Open surgery, during which 1 or 2 larger incisions are made.
      * Minimally invasive surgery, during which a 2 to 4 small incisions are made in the belly. A laparoscope with a tiny camera is inserted into the belly through one of the incisions.

Radiation therapy may also be used instead of surgery in some cases when the
cancer has not spread outside the esophagus.

Either chemotherapy, radiation, or both may be used to shrink the tumor and
make surgery easier to perform.

If the person is too ill to have major surgery or the cancer has spread to
other organs, chemotherapy or radiation may be used to help reduce symptoms.
This is called palliative therapy. In such cases, the disease is usually not
curable.

Besides a change in diet, other treatments that may be used to help the
patient swallow include:

      * Dilating (widening) the esophagus using an endoscope. Sometimes a stent is placed to keep the esophagus open.
      * A feeding tube into the stomach.
      * Photodynamic therapy, in which a special drug is injected into the tumor and is then exposed to light. The light activates the medicine that attacks the tumor.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When the cancer has not spread outside the esophagus, surgery may improve the
chance of survival.

When the cancer has spread to other areas of the body, a cure is generally not
possible. Treatment is directed toward relieving symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Pneumonia
      * Severe weight loss from not eating enough 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have difficulty swallowing with no known
cause and it does not get better. Also call if you have other symptoms of
esophageal cancer.

## Prevention

To reduce your risk of cancer of the esophagus:

      * DO NOT smoke.
      * Limit or DO NOT drink alcoholic beverages.
      * Get checked by your doctor if you have severe GERD.
      * Get regular checkups if you have Barrett esophagus.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - esophagus

## Patient Instructions

      * Esophagectomy - discharge 
      * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
      * Jejunostomy feeding tube 

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Heartburn prevention](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9384t.jpg)Heartburn prevention

## References

Ku GY, Ilson DH. Cancer of the esophagus. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 71.

National Cancer Institute website. Esophageal cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/esophageal/hp/esophageal-treatment-
pdq. Updated November 12, 2019. Accessed December 5, 2019.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): esophageal and esophagogastric
junction cancers. Version 2.2019.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/esophageal.pdf. Updated May 29,
2019. Accessed September 4, 2019.

## Review Date 7/10/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophageal
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

