Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003057.htm    
                                Description: Broad nasal bridge is a widening of the top part of the nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Broad nasal bridge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003057.htm

# Broad nasal bridge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Broad nasal bridge is a widening of the top part of the nose.

## Considerations

Broad nasal bridge can be a normal facial feature. However, it can also be
associated with certain genetic or congenital (present from birth) disorders.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Basal cell nevus syndrome
      * Fetal hydantoin effect (mother took the drug hydantoin during pregnancy)
      * Normal facial feature
      * Other congenital syndromes

## Home Care

There is no need to treat broad nasal bridge. Other conditions that have broad
nasal bridge as a symptom may need medical attention.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * You feel that the shape of your child's nose is interfering with breathing
      * You have questions about your child's nose

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. Provider may also ask questions
about the person's family and medical history.

## Images

      * ![The face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1095t.jpg)The face
      * ![Broad nasal bridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17097t.jpg)Broad nasal bridge

## References

Chambers C, Scialli AR. Teratogenesis and environmental exposure. In: Creasy
RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 31.

Haddad J, Keesecker S. Congenital disorders of the nose. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 376.

Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo MD. Facial defects as major feature. In: Jones
KL, Jones MC, Del Campo MD, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human
Malformation_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap H.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
eye movement and alignment. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 623.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

