Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000061.htm    
                                Description: A nose fracture is a break in the bone or cartilage over the bridge, or in the sidewall or septum (structure that divides the nostrils) of the nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nose fracture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000061.htm

# Nose fracture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nose fracture is a break in the bone or cartilage over the bridge, or in the
sidewall or septum (structure that divides the nostrils) of the nose.

## Considerations

A fractured nose is the most common fracture of the face. It most often occurs
after an injury and often occurs with other fractures of the face.

Nose injuries and neck injuries are often seen together. A blow that is
forceful enough to injure the nose may be hard enough to injure the neck.

Serious nose injuries cause problems that need a health care provider's
attention right away. For example, damage to the cartilage can cause a
collection of blood to form inside the nose. If this blood is not drained
right away, it can cause an abscess or a permanent deformity that blocks the
nose. It may lead to tissue death and cause the nose to collapse.

For minor nose injuries, the provider may want to see the person within the
first week after the injury to see if the nose has moved out of its normal
shape.

Sometimes, surgery may be needed to correct a nose or septum that has been
bent out of shape by an injury.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Blood coming from the nose
      * Bruising around the eyes
      * Difficulty breathing through the nose
      * Misshapen appearance (may not be obvious until the swelling goes down)
      * Pain
      * Swelling

The bruised appearance most often disappears after 2 weeks.

## First Aid

If a nose injury happens:

      * Try to stay calm.
      * Breathe through your mouth and lean forward in a sitting position to keep blood from going down the back of your throat.
      * Squeeze the nostrils closed and hold pressure to stop the bleeding.
      * Apply cold compresses to your nose to reduce swelling. If possible, hold the compress so that there isn't too much pressure on the nose.
      * To help relieve pain, try acetaminophen (Tylenol). 

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT try to straighten a broken nose
      * DO NOT move the person if there is reason to suspect a head or neck injury

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if:

      * Bleeding will not stop
      * Clear fluid keeps draining from the nose
      * You suspect a blood clot in the septum
      * You suspect a neck or head injury
      * The nose looks deformed or out of its usual shape
      * The person is having difficulty breathing

## Prevention

Wear protective headgear while playing contact sports, orÂ riding bicycles,
skateboards, roller skates, or rollerblades.

Use seat belts and appropriate car seats when driving.

## Alternative Names

Fracture of the nose; Broken nose; Nasal fracture; Nasal bone fracture; Nasal
septal fractureÂ

## Images

      * ![Nasal fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8873t.jpg)Nasal fracture

## References

Chegar BE, Tatum SA. Nasal fractures. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 33.

Christophel JJ. Facial, eye, nasal, and dental injuries. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 27.

Malaty J. Facial and skull fractures. In: Eiff MP, Hatch R, eds.Â _Fracture
Management for Primary Care, Updated Edition_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chapÂ 17.

Mayersak RJ. Facial trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Â Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ Â 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 35.

Rodriguez ED, Dorafshar AH, Manson PN. Facial injuries. In: Rodriguez ED,
Losee JE, Neligan PC, eds.Â _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3: Craniofacial, Head and
Neck Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 3.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

