Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003012.htm    
                                Description: Septoplasty is surgery performed to correct any problems in the nasal septum, the structure inside the nose that separates the nose into two chambers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Septoplasty

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003012.htm

# Septoplasty

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Septoplasty is surgery performed to correct any problems in the nasal septum,
the structure inside the nose that separates the nose into two chambers.

## Description

Most people receive general anesthesia for septoplasty. You will be asleep and
pain-free. Some people have the surgery under local anesthesia, which numbs
the area to block pain. You will stay awake if you have local anesthesia.
Surgery takes about 1 toÂ 1Â½ hours. Most people go home the same day.

To do the procedure:

The surgeon makes a cut inside the wall on one side of your nose.

      * The mucous membrane that covers the wall is elevated.
      * Cartilage or bone that is causing the blockage in the area is moved, repositioned or taken out.
      * The mucous membrane is put back in place. The membrane will be held in place by stitches, splints, or packing material. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The main reasons for this surgery are:

      * To repair a crooked, bent, or deformed nasal septum that blocks the airway in the nose. People with this condition very oftenÂ breathe through their mouth and may be more likely to get nasal or sinus infections.
      * To treat nosebleeds that cannot be controlled. 

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Heart problems
      * Bleeding
      * Infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

      * Return of the nasal blockage. This could require another surgery.
      * Scarring.
      * A perforation, or hole, in the septum.
      * Changes in skin sensation.
      * Unevenness in the appearance of the nose.
      * Skin discoloration.

## Before the Procedure

Before the procedure:

      * You will meet with the doctor who will give you anesthesia during the surgery.
      * You go over your medical history to help the doctor decide the best type of anesthesia.
      * Be sure you tell your health care provider about any medicines you take, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription. Also tell your doctor if you have any allergies or if you have a history of bleeding problems.
      * You may need to stop taking any drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot 2 weeks before your surgery, including aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and some herbal supplements.
      * You may be asked to stop eating and drinking after midnight the night before the procedure. 

## After the Procedure

After the procedure:

      * You will most likely go home on the same day as surgery.
      * After surgery, both sides of your nose may be packed (stuffed with cotton or spongy materials). This helps prevent nosebleeds.
      * Most of the time this packing is removed 24 to 36 hours after surgery.
      * You may have swelling or drainage for a few days after the surgery. 
      * You will likely have small amounts of bleeding for 24 to 48 hours after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most septoplasty procedures are able to straighten the septum. Breathing often
improves.

## Alternative Names

Nasal septum repair

## Patient Instructions

      * Septoplasty - discharge

## Images

      * ![Septoplasty - series - Septal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7165t.jpg)Septoplasty - series

## References

Gillman GS, Lee SE. Septoplasty - classic and endoscopic. In: Meyers EN,
Snyderman CH, eds. _Operative Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 95.

Kridel R, Sturm-O'Brien A. Nasal septum. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 32.

Ramakrishnan JB. Septoplasty and turbinate surgery. In: Scholes MA,
Ramakrishnan VR, eds. _ENT Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

