Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000246.htm    
                                Description: Septoplasty is surgery to correct any problems in the nasal septum. The nasal septum is the wall inside the nose that separates the nostrils.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Septoplasty - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000246.htm

# Septoplasty - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Septoplasty is surgery to correct any problems in the nasal septum. The nasal
septum is the wall inside the nose that separates the nostrils.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had septoplasty to fix the problems in your nasal septum. This surgery
takes about 1 to 1 Â½ hours. You may have received general anesthesia so you
were asleep and pain free. You may only have had local anesthetic in the area
having surgery but this is less likely.

## What to Expect at Home

After surgery, you may have either dissolvable suture, packing (to stop
bleeding) or splints (to hold the tissues in place) inside your nose. Most of
the time, packing is removed 24 to 36 hours after surgery. Splints may be left
in place for as long as 1 to 2 weeks.

You may have swelling in your face for 2 to 3 days after surgery. Your nose
may drain and bleed a little for 2 to 5 days after surgery.

Your nose, cheeks, and upper lip may be numb. The numbness on the tip of your
nose may take several months to completely go away.

## Self-care

Rest all day after surgery. DO NOT touch or rub your nose. Avoid blowing your
nose (it is normal to feel stuffed up for several weeks).

You may apply ice packs to your nose and eye area to help with pain and
swelling, but make sure to keep your nose dry. Cover the ice pack with a
clean, dry cloth or small towel. Sleeping propped up on 2 pillows will also
help reduce swelling.

You will get a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled when you go home
so you have it when you need it. Take pain medicines, such as acetaminophen
(Tylenol) or a prescription painkiller, the way you have been told to take
them. Take your medicine when pain first starts. DO NOT let pain get very bad
before taking it.

You should not drive, operate machinery, drink alcohol, or make any major
decisions for at least 24 hours after surgery. Your anesthesia may make you
groggy and it will be hard to think clearly. The effects should wear off in
about 24 hours.

Limit activities that could make you fall or put more pressure on your face.
Some of these are bending over, holding your breath, and tightening muscles
during bowel movements. Avoid heavy lifting and hard physical activity for 1
to 2 weeks. You should be able to go back to work or school 1 week after
surgery.

DO NOT take baths or showers for 24 hours. Your nurse will show you how to
clean your nose area with Q-tips and hydrogen peroxide or another cleaning
solution if needed.

You may go outside a few days after surgery, but DO NOT stay in the sun for
more than 15 minutes.

Follow up with your provider as you have been told. You may need to have
stitches removed. Your provider will want to check your healing.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have:

      * Trouble breathing
      * A heavy nosebleed, and you cannot stop it
      * Pain that is getting worse, or pain that your pain medicines are not helping with
      * High fever and chills 
      * Headaches
      * Disorientation
      * Neck stiffness

## Alternative Names

Nasal septum repair; Submucus resection of the septum

## References

Gillman GS, Lee SE. Septoplasty - classic and endoscopic. In: Myers EN,
Snyderman CH, eds. _Operative Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 95.

Kridel R, Sturm-O'Brien A. Nasal septum. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 32.

Ramakrishnan JB. Septoplasty and turbinate surgery. In: Scholes MA,
Ramakrishnan VR, eds. _ENT Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 27.

## Read More

      * Rhinoplasty
      * Septoplasty

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nose Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

