Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001648.htm    
                                Description: Rhinitis is a condition that includes a runny nose, sneezing, and nasal stuffiness. When hay allergies (hayfever) or a coldÂ are not causing these symptoms, the condition is called nonallergic rhinitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nonallergic rhinopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001648.htm

# Nonallergic rhinopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rhinitis is a condition that includes a runny nose, sneezing, and nasal
stuffiness. When hay allergies (hayfever) or a coldÂ are not causing these
symptoms, the condition is called nonallergic rhinitis. One type of
nonallergic rhinitis is calledÂ nonallergic rhinopathy. This condition used to
be known as vasomotor rhinitis.

## Causes

Nonallergic rhinopathy is not caused by an infection or allergy. The exact
cause is unknown. Symptoms are triggered by something that irritates the nose,
such as:

      * A dry atmosphere
      * Air pollution
      * Alcohol
      * Certain medicines
      * Spicy foods, and in some cases, while eating in general
      * Strong emotions
      * Strong odors, such as perfumes, cleaning products (especially bleach) among others

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Runny nose
      * Nasal congestion (stuffy nose)
      * Sneezing
      * Watery nasal drainage

## Exams and Tests

TheÂ health care providerÂ will ask about your symptoms, when they occur, and
what seems to trigger them.

You will also be asked about your home and work environment. TheÂ provider may
look inside your nose to check if the tissues lining yourÂ nose are swollen
due to inflamed blood vessels.

A skin testÂ may be done to rule out allergies as a cause of your symptoms.

If yourÂ provider determines youÂ can't have skin testing, special blood tests
may help with the diagnosis. These tests, known as IgE allergen tests
(ImmunoCAP; used to be called RAST), can measure the levels of allergy-related
substances. A complete blood count (CBC) test can measure eosinophils
(allergy-type white blood cells) to get a totalÂ eosinophil count. This may
also help diagnose allergies.

## Treatment

The main treatment is simply avoiding the things that trigger your symptoms.

Ask your provider if decongestants or nasal sprays containing an antihistamine
are right for you. Corticosteroid nasal sprays may be useful for some forms of
nonallergic rhinopathy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think you have symptoms of nonallergic rhinopathy.

## Alternative Names

Rhinitis - nonallergic; Idiopathic rhinitis; Nonallergic rhinitis;Â Vasomotor
rhinitis; Irritant rhinitis

## Images

      * ![Nasal mucosa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9674t.jpg)Nasal mucosa

## References

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

Joe SA, Liu JZ. Nonallergic rhinitis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

Sur DKC, Plesa ML. Chronic nonallergic rhinitis. _Am Fam Physician._
2018;98(3):171-176. PMID: 30215894 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30215894.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

