Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000554.htm    
                                Description: Your nose has 2 bones at the bridge of your nose and a long piece of cartilage (flexible but strong tissue) that gives your nose its shape.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal fracture - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000554.htm

# Nasal fracture - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your nose has 2 bones at the bridge of your nose and a long piece of cartilage
(flexible but strong tissue) that gives your nose its shape.

A nasal fracture occurs when the bony part of your nose has been broken. Most
broken noses are caused by trauma such as sport injuries, car accidents, or
fistfights.

## More About Your Injury

If your nose is crooked from the injury you may need a reduction in order to
put the bones back in place. If the break is easy to fix, a reduction can be
done in the health care provider's office. If the break is more severe, you
may need surgery to fix it.

You may have a hard time breathing through your nose because the bones may be
out of place or there is a lot of swelling.

## What to Expect

You may have one or all of these symptoms of a broken nose:

      * Swelling on the outside and on the bridge of your nose
      * Pain
      * A crooked shape to your nose
      * Bleeding from either inside or outside the nose
      * Difficulty breathing through your nose
      * Bruising around one or both eyes 

Your provider may need to get an x-ray of your nose to see if you have a
fracture. A CT scan or other tests may be needed to rule out a more serious
injury.

If you have a nosebleed that does not stop, the provider may insert a soft
gauze pad or other kind of packing into the bleeding nostril.

You may have had a nasal septal hematoma. This is a collection of blood within
the septum of the nose. The septum is the part of the nose between the 2
nostrils. An injury disrupts the blood vessels so that fluid and blood may
collect under the lining. Your provider may have made a small cut or used a
needle to drain the blood.

If you need surgery, you will need to wait until most or all of the swelling
has gone down. In most cases, this is 3 to 6 days after your injury. You may
be referred to a special doctor -- such as a plastic surgeon or an ear, nose,
and throat doctor -- if the injury is more severe.

## Symptom Relief

For simple breaks, in which the nasal bone is not crooked, the provider may
tell you to take pain medicine and nasal decongestants, and to put ice on the
injury.

To keep pain and swelling down:

      * Rest. Try to keep away from any activity where you could bump your nose.
      * Ice your nose for 20 minutes, every 1 to 2 hours while awake. DO NOT apply ice directly to the skin.
      * Take pain medicine if necessary.
      * Keep your head elevated to help reduce swelling and improve breathing. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

      * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Activity

You can keep doing most daily activities, but use extra care. It may be
difficult to exercise strenuously because breathing through your nose may be
impaired by swelling. Try not to lift anything heavy unless your provider says
it is OK. If you have a cast or splint, wear this until your provider says it
is OK to take it off.

You may have to avoid sports for a while. When your provider tells you it is
safe to play again, make sure to wear face and nose guards.

## Self-care at Home

DO NOT remove any packing or splints unless your doctor tells you to.

Take hot showers to breathe in the steam. This will help ease stuffiness and
break up mucus or dried blood that builds up after surgery.

You may also need to clean the inside of your nose to get rid of dried blood
or drainage. Use a cotton swab dipped in warm soapy water and carefully wipe
the inside of each nostril.

If you take any medicines nasally, talk to your provider before using them.

## Follow-up

Follow up with your doctor 1 to 2 weeks after your injury. Based on your
injury, your doctor may want to see you more than one time.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if you have:

      * Sudden numbness or tingling
      * Sudden increase in pain or swelling
      * Any open wound or bleeding
      * Injury does not seem to be healing as expected
      * Difficulty breathing that does not go away
      * Any changes in vision or double vision
      * Worsening headache
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Fever
      * Foul smelling and/or discolored (yellow, green, or red) drainage from the nose 

## Alternative Names

Broken nose

## References

Chegar BE, Tatum SA. Nasal fracture. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 33.

Mayersak RJ. Facial trauma. In: Walls RM, Hochberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 35.

Reddy LV, Harding SC. Nasal fractures. In: Fonseca RJ, ed. _Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery, vol 2_. 3rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nose Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

