Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001292.htm    
                                Description: A nasal septal hematoma is a collection of blood within the septum of the nose. The septum is the part of the nose between the nostrils. An injury disrupts the blood vessels so that fluid and blood may    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal septal hematoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001292.htm

# Nasal septal hematoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nasal septal hematoma is a collection of blood within the septum of the
nose. The septum is the part of the nose between the nostrils. An injury
disrupts the blood vessels so that fluid and blood may collect under the
lining.

## Causes

A septal hematoma can be caused by:

      * A broken nose 
      * Injury to the soft tissue of the area
      * Surgery
      * Taking blood thinning medicines

The problem is more common in children because their septums are thicker and
have a more flexible lining.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Blockage in breathing
      * Nasal congestion
      * Painful swelling of the nasal septum
      * Change in the shape of the nose

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look into your nose to see if there is swelling
of the tissue between the nostrils. The provider will touch the area with an
applicator or a cotton swab. If there is a hematoma, the area will be soft and
able to be pressed down. The nasal septum is normally thin and rigid.

## Treatment

Your provider will make a small cut to drain the blood. Gauze or cotton will
be placed inside the nose after the blood is removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You should heal fully if the injury is treated quickly.

## Possible Complications

If you have had the hematoma for a long time, it may become infected and will
be painful. You may develop a septal abscess and fever.

An untreated septal hematoma may lead to a hole in the area separating the
nostrils, called a septal perforation. This can cause nasal congestion. Or,
the area may collapse, leading to a deformity of the outer nose called a
saddle nose deformity.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider for any nasal injury resulting in nasal congestion or pain.
You may be referred to an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) specialist.

## Prevention

Recognizing and treating the problem early can prevent complications and allow
the septum to heal.

## References

Chegar BE, Tatum SA. Nasal fractures. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 33.

Chiang T, Chan KH. Pediatric facial fractures. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 190.

Haddad J, Keesecker S. Acquired disorders of the nose. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 377.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

