Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001642.htm    
                                Description: Choanal atresia is a narrowing or blockage of the nasal airway by tissue. It is a congenital condition, meaning it is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choanal atresia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001642.htm

# Choanal atresia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choanal atresia is a narrowing or blockage of the nasal airway by tissue. It
is a congenital condition, meaning it is present at birth.

## Causes

The cause of choanal atresia is unknown. It is thought to occur when the thin
tissue separating the nose and mouth area during fetal development remains
after birth.

The condition is the most common nasal abnormality in newborn infants. Females
get this condition about twice as often as males. More than half of affected
infants also have other congenital problems.

Choanal atresia is most often diagnosed shortly after birth while the infant
is still in the hospital.

## Symptoms

Newborns generally prefer to breathe through their nose. Typically, infants
only breathe through their mouths when they cry. Babies with choanal atresia
have difficulty breathing unless they are crying.

Choanal atresia may affect one or both sides of the nasal airway. Choanal
atresia blocking both sides of the nose causes acute breathing problems with
bluish discoloration and breathing failure. Such infants may need
resuscitation at delivery. More than one half of infants have a blockage on
only one side, which causes less severe problems.

Symptoms include:

      * Chest retracts unless the child is breathing through mouth or crying.
      * Difficulty breathing following birth, which may result in cyanosis (bluish discoloration), unless infant is crying.
      * Inability to nurse and breathe at same time.
      * Inability to pass a catheter through each side of the nose into the throat.
      * Persistent one-sided nasal blockage or discharge. 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show an obstruction of the nose.

Tests that may be done include:

      * CT scan
      * Endoscopy of the nose
      * Sinus x-ray

## Treatment

The immediate concern is to resuscitate the baby if necessary. An airway may
need to be placed so that the infant can breathe. In some cases, intubation or
tracheostomy may be needed.

An infant can learn to mouth breathe, which can delay the need for immediate
surgery.

Surgery to remove the obstruction cures the problem. Surgery may be delayed if
the infant can tolerate mouth breathing. The surgery may be done through the
nose (transnasal) or through the mouth (transpalatal).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery is expected.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications include:

      * Aspiration while feeding and attempting to breathe through the mouth
      * Respiratory arrest
      * Renarrowing of the area after surgery

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Choanal atresia, especially when it affects both sides, is generally diagnosed
shortly after birth while the infant is still in the hospital. One-sided
atresia may not cause symptoms, and the infant may be sent home without a
diagnosis.

If your infant has any of the problems listed here, consult your health care
provider. The child may need to be checked by an ear, nose, and throat (ENT)
specialist.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## References

Elluru RG. Congenital malformations of the nose and nasopharynx. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 189.

Haddad J, Dodhia SN. Congenital disorders of the nose. In: Kliegman RM, St
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 404.

Otteson TD, Wang T. Upper airway lesions in the neonate. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 68.

## Review Date 8/12/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

