Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001037.htm    
                                Description: Rhinophyma is a large,Â red-colored (ruddy) nose. The nose has a bulb shape.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rhinophyma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001037.htm

# Rhinophyma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rhinophyma is a large,Â red-colored (ruddy) nose. The nose has a bulb shape.

## Causes

Rhinophyma was once thought to be caused by heavy alcohol use. This is not
correct. Rhinophyma occurs equally in people who do not use alcohol and in
those who drink heavily. The problem is much more common in men than in women.

The cause of rhinophyma is unknown. It may be a severe form of a skin disease
called rosacea. It is an uncommon disorder.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include changes in the nose, such as:

      * Bulb-like (bulbous) shape
      * Many oil glands
      * Reddish color (possible)
      * Thickening of the skin
      * Waxy, yellow surface 

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, a health care provider can diagnose rhinophyma without any
tests. Sometimes a skin biopsy may be needed.

## Treatment

The most common treatment is surgery to reshape the nose. Surgery may be done
with a laser, scalpel, or rotating brush (dermabrasion). Certain acne
medicines may also be helpful in treating the condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Rhinophyma can be corrected with surgery. The condition may return.

## Possible Complications

Rhinophyma can cause emotional distress. This is because of the way it looks.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of rhinophyma and would like to talk
about treatment.

## Alternative Names

Bulbous nose; Nose - bulbous; Phymatous rosacea

## Images

      * ![Rosacea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2469t.jpg)Rosacea

## References

Habif TP. Acne, rosacea, and related disorders. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Qazaz S, Berth-Jones. Rhinophyma. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J,
Coulson I, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 219.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Rosacea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rosacea_thumb.jpg)Rosacea _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

