Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003056.htm    
                                Description: A low nasal bridge is the flattening of the top part of the nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low nasal bridge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003056.htm

# Low nasal bridge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A low nasal bridge is the flattening of the top part of the nose.

## Considerations

Genetic diseases or infections may cause decreased growth of the bridge of
nose.

A decrease in the height of the bridge of nose is best seen from a side view
of the face.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Cleidocranial dysostosis
      * Congenital syphilis
      * Down syndrome
      * Normal variation
      * Other syndromes that are present at birth (congenital)
      * Williams syndrome

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have questions about the shape of your
child's nose.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam. The provider may ask questions about
your child's family and medical history.

Laboratory studies may include:

      * Chromosome studies
      * Enzyme assays (blood tests to measure specific enzyme levels)
      * Metabolic studies
      * X-rays 

## Alternative Names

Saddle nose

## Images

      * ![The face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1095t.jpg)The face
      * ![Low nasal bridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17243t.jpg)Low nasal bridge

## References

Farrior RT, Farrior EH, Eisler LS. Special rhinoplasty techniques. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 35.

Jones KL, Jones MC, Campo MD. Osteochondrodysplasias. In: Jones KL, Jones MC,
Del Campo MD, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human Malformation_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap K.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dyspmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

Slavotinek A. Dysmorphology. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 108.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

