Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000236.htm    
                                Description: Pancreatic cancer is cancer that starts inÂ the pancreas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreatic cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000236.htm

# Pancreatic cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pancreatic cancer is cancer that starts inÂ the pancreas.

## Causes

The pancreas is a large organ behind the stomach. It makes and releases
enzymes into the intestines that help the body digest and absorb food,
especially fats. The pancreas also makes and releases insulin and glucagon.
These are hormones that help the body control blood sugar levels.

There are different types of pancreatic cancers. The type depends on the cell
the cancer develops in. Examples include:

      * Adenocarcinoma, the most common type of pancreatic cancer
      * Other more rare types include glucagonoma, insulinoma, islet cell tumor, VIPoma

The exact cause of pancreatic cancer is unknown. It is more common in people
who:

      * Are obese
      * Have a diet high in fat and low in fruits and vegetables
      * Have diabetes
      * Have long-term exposure to certain chemicals
      * Have long-term inflammation of the pancreas (chronic pancreatitis)
      * Smoke

The risk for pancreatic cancer increases with age. Family history of the
disease also slightly increases the chance of developing this cancer.

## Symptoms

A tumor (cancer) in the pancreas may grow without any symptoms at first. This
means the cancer is often advanced when it is first found.

Symptoms of pancreatic cancer include:

      * Diarrhea
      * Dark urine and clay-colored stools
      * Fatigue and weakness
      * Sudden increase in blood sugar level (diabetes)
      * Jaundice (a yellow color in the skin, mucous membranes, or white part of theÂ eyes) and itching of the skin
      * Loss of appetite and weight loss
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Pain or discomfort in the upper part of the belly or abdomen 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. During the exam, the provider may feel a lump (mass) in your
abdomen.

Blood tests that may be ordered include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Liver function tests
      * Serum bilirubin

Imaging tests that may be ordered include:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
      * Endoscopic ultrasound
      * MRI of the abdomen

Diagnosis of pancreatic cancer (and what type) is made by a pancreatic biopsy.

If tests confirm you have pancreatic cancer, more tests will be done to see
how far the cancer has spread within and outside the pancreas. This is called
staging. Staging helps guide treatment and gives you an idea of what to
expect.

## Treatment

Treatment for adenocarcinomaÂ depends on the stage of the tumor.

Surgery may be done if the tumor has not spread or has spread very little.
Along with surgery, chemotherapy or radiation therapy or both may be used
before or after surgery. A small number of people can be cured with this
treatment approach.

When the tumor has not spread out of the pancreas but cannot be surgically
removed, chemotherapy and radiation therapy together may be recommended.

When the tumor has spread (metastasized) to other organs such as the liver,
chemotherapy alone is usually used.

With advanced cancer, the goal of treatment is toÂ manage pain and other
symptoms. For example, if the tube that carries bile is blocked by the
pancreatic tumor, a procedure to place a tiny metal tube (stent) may be done
to open the blockage. This can helpÂ relieve jaundice, and itching of the
skin.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people with pancreatic cancer that can be surgically removed are cured.
But in most people, the tumor has spread and cannot be completely removed at
the time of diagnosis.

Chemotherapy and radiation are often given after surgery to increase the cure
rate (this is called adjuvant therapy). For pancreatic cancer that cannot be
removed completely with surgery or cancer that has spread beyond the pancreas,
a cure is not possible. In this case, chemotherapy is given to improve and
extendÂ the person'sÂ life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have:

      * Abdominal or back pain that does not go away
      * Persistent loss of appetite
      * Unexplained fatigue or weight loss
      * Other symptoms of this disorder

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

      * If you smoke, now is the time to quit.
      * Eat a diet high in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
      * Exercise regularly to stay at a healthy weight.

## Alternative Names

Pancreatic cancer; Cancer - pancreas

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Pancreatic cancer, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1192t.jpg)Pancreatic cancer, CT scan
      * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8883t.jpg)Pancreas
      * ![Biliary obstruction - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19214t.jpg)Biliary obstruction - series

## References

Jesus-Acosta AD, Narang A, Mauro L, Herman J, Jaffee EM, Laheru DA. Carcinoma
of the pancreas. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 78.

National Cancer Institute website. Pancreatic cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/pancreatic/hp/pancreatic-treatment-
pdq. Updated July 15, 2019. Accessed August 27, 2019.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Version 3.2019.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/pancreatic.pdf. Updated July 2,
2019. Accessed August 27, 2019.

Shires GT, Wilfong LS. Pancreatic cancer, cystic pancreatic neoplasms, and
other nonendocrine pancreatic tumors. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

