Link: https://medlineplus.gov/veteransandmilitaryhealth.html    
                                Description: Military service members and veterans face life-threatening injuries, mental health problems and problems from exposure to environmental hazards.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Veterans and Military Health

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/veteransandmilitaryhealth.html

#  Veterans and Military Health

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women

## Summary

Military service members and veterans have made sacrifices to our country, and
they face different health issues than civilians. During their service, they
are at risk for various injuries. These injuries can happen during combat,
while others involve physical stress to the body. Sometimes the injuries are
life-threatening or serious enough to cause disability. Others may not be as
serious, but can be painful and affect daily life. Specific types of injuries
include

    * Shrapnel and gunshot wounds
    * Lost limbs
    * Head and brain injuries
    * Tinnitus and hearing loss, typically from exposure to noise
    * Sprains and strains
    * Limited range of motion, especially in ankles and knees

There may also be a risk of health problems from exposure to environmental
hazards, such as contaminated water, chemicals, infections, and burn pits.

Being in combat and being separated from your family can be stressful. The
stress can put service members and veterans at risk for mental health
problemss. These include anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression,
and substance use. Suicide can also be a concern.

## Start Here

    * eBenefits: My Gateway to Benefits Information (Department of Veterans Affairs) Also in Spanish
    * Health Programs for Veterans (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * MyHealtheVet (VA's personal health record) (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Veterans Crisis Line: 1-800-273-8255 (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Veterans Health Administration

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Suicide Prevention: 1-800-273-8255 (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Related Issues

    * Compensation: How to Apply (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Federal Benefits for Veterans, Dependents and Survivors: 2017 Online Edition (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * For Homeless Veterans (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * How to Apply for VA Health Care (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Rehabilitation and Prosthetic Services (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Returning from the War Zone: A Guide for Military Personnel (National Center for PTSD) \- PDF
    * Rights and Responsibilities of VA Patients and Residents of Community Living Centers (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Specifics

    * About Military Sexual Trauma ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Agent Orange (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Burn Pits (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Diseases and Conditions (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Infectious Diseases - Diseases Related to Service in Gulf War, Iraq, and Afghanistan (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Medically Unexplained Symptoms (Department of Veterans Affairs) \- PDF
    * Mental Health Concerns: Veterans and Active Duty (NAMI)
    * Military Exposures (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Military Sexual Trauma (Department of Veterans Affairs) \- PDF
    * Military Sexual Trauma (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Suicide Awareness (Department of Defense)
    * Traumatic Brain Injury: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Viral Hepatitis (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Health Check Tools

    * Alcohol Use Screening (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Depression Screening: Questionnaire (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Substance Abuse Screening (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Anger (Defense Health Agency)
    * Anxiety (Defense Health Agency)
    * Depression (Defense Health Agency)
    * PTSD: National Center for PTSD ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Sleep (Defense Health Agency)
    * Stress (Defense Health Agency)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Military Personnel ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Persian Gulf Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Veterans ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Sex-specific association of hyperuricemia with cardiometabolic abnormalities in a military cohort:...
    * Article: Medical Surgical Nurse Self-perceived Competency in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder/Substance Use Disorder...
    * Article: Associations between stopping prescriptions for opioids, length of opioid treatment, and...
    * Veterans and Military Health -- see more articles
    * \-- see more articles
    * \-- see more articles
    * Agent orange -- see more articles
    * Gulf war syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Department of Veterans Affairs
    * Find a Doctor (TRICARE Management Activity)

## Women

    * Center for Women Veterans
    * Sexual Trauma: Women Veterans Health Care (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Women Veterans and Mental Health (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Women Veterans Health Care: Frequently Asked Questions (Veterans Health Administration)

## Topic Image

![Veterans and Military
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VeteransandMilitaryHealth.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
    * Veterans and Military Family Health

## My HealtheVet

My HealtheVet, the Gateway to Veteran Health and Wellness

## TRICARE

TRICARE is the healthcare program for active duty and retired service
personnel, their eligible family members and survivors.

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 28 February 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

