Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002928.htm    
                                Description: &#10;Abdominal exploration is surgery to look at the organs and structures in your belly area (abdomen). This includes your:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal exploration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002928.htm

# Abdominal exploration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal exploration is surgery to look at the organs and structures in your
belly area (abdomen). This includes your:

      * Appendix
      * Bladder
      * Gallbladder
      * Intestines
      * Kidney and ureters
      * Liver
      * Pancreas
      * Spleen
      * Stomach
      * Uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries (in women)

Surgery that opens the abdomen is called a laparotomy.

## Description

Exploratory laparotomy is done while you are under general anesthesia. This
means you are asleep and feel no pain.

The surgeon makes a cut into the abdomen and examines the abdominal organs.
The size and location of the surgical cut depends on the specific health
concern.

A biopsy can be taken during the procedure.

Laparoscopy describes a procedure that is performed with a tiny camera placed
inside the abdomen. If possible, laparoscopy will be done instead of
laparotomy.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your health care provider may recommend a laparatomy if imaging tests of the
abdomen, such as x-rays and CT scans, have not provided an accurate diagnosis.

Exploratory laparotomy may be used to help diagnose and treat many health
conditions, including:

      * Cancer of the ovary, colon, pancreas, liver
      * Endometriosis
      * Gallstones
      * Hole in the intestine (intestinal perforation)
      * Inflammation of the appendix (acute appendicitis)
      * Inflammation of an intestinal pocket (diverticulitis)
      * Inflammation of the pancreas (acute or chronic pancreatitis)
      * Liver abscess
      * Pockets of infection (retroperitoneal abscess, abdominal abscess, pelvic abscess)
      * Pregnancy outside of the uterus (ectopic pregnancy)
      * Scar tissue in the abdomen (adhesions) 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

      * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of this surgery include:

      * Incisional hernia
      * Damage to organs in the abdomen

## Before the Procedure

You will visit with your provider and undergo medical tests before your
surgery. Your provider will:

      * Do a complete physical exam.
      * Make sure other medical conditions you may have, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart or lung problems are under control.
      * Perform tests to make sure that you will be able to tolerate the surgery.
      * If you are a smoker, you should stop smoking several weeks before your surgery. Ask your provider for help. 

Tell your provider:

      * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription.
      * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day
      * If you might be pregnant 

During the week before your surgery:

      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. Some of these are aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), clopidogrel (Plavix), or ticlopidine (Ticlid).
      * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * Prepare your home for your return from the hospital. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * Follow your provider's instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
      * Take medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You should be able to start eating and drinking normally about 2 to 3 days
after the surgery. How long you stay in the hospital depends on the severity
of the problem. Complete recovery usually takes about 4 weeks.

## Alternative Names

Exploratory surgery; Laparotomy; Exploratory laparotomy

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Pelvic adhesions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17118t.jpg)Pelvic adhesions
      * ![Abdominal exploration - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10083t.jpg)Abdominal exploration - series

## References

D'Souza RE, Novell R. Laparotomy: elective and emergency. In: Novell R, Baker
DM, Goddard N, eds. _Kirk's General Surgical Operations_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2013:chap 4.

Squires RA, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Adhesions_thumb.jpg)Adhesions _Read
more_

![Appendicitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Appendicitis2_thumb.jpg)Appendicitis
_Read more_

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

