Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007649.htm    
                                Description: Pancreatic surgery is done to treat cancer of the pancreas gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Surgery for pancreatic cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007649.htm

# Surgery for pancreatic cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pancreatic surgery is done to treat cancer of the pancreas gland.

## Description

The pancreas is located behind the stomach, between the duodenum (the first
part of the small intestine) and the spleen, and in front of the spine. It
helps in food digestion. The pancreas has three parts called the head (the
wider end), middle, and tail. All or part of the pancreas is removed depending
on the location of the cancer tumor.

Whether the procedure is performed laparoscopically (using a tiny video
camera) or using robotic surgery depends on:

      * The extent of the surgery
      * The experience and number of surgeries your surgeon has performed
      * The experience and number of surgeries performed at the hospital you are going to use 

The surgery is done in the hospital with general anesthesia so you are asleep
and pain free. The following types of surgeries are used in the surgical
treatment of pancreatic cancer.

 **Whipple procedure --** This is the most common surgery for pancreatic
cancer.

      * A cut is made in your belly and the head of the pancreas is removed.
      * The gallbladder, bile duct, and part of the duodenum (first part of the small intestine) are also taken out. Sometimes, part of the stomach is removed. 

**Distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy --** This surgery is used more often
for tumors in the middle and tail of the pancreas.

      * The middle and the tail of the pancreas are removed.
      * The spleen may also be removed. 

**Total pancreatectomy --** This surgery is not done very often. There is
little benefit of taking out the whole pancreas if the cancer can be treated
by removing only part of the gland.

      * A cut is made in your belly and the whole pancreas is removed.
      * The gallbladder, spleen, part of the duodenum, and nearby lymph nodes are also removed. Sometimes, part of the stomach is removed. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your doctor may recommend a surgical procedure to treat cancer of the
pancreas. Surgery can stop the spread of cancer if the tumor has not grown
outside the pancreas.

## Risks

Risks for surgery and anesthesia in general are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Heart problems
      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Blood clots in legs or lungs

Risks for this surgery are:

      * Leakage of fluids from the pancreas, bile duct, stomach, or intestine
      * Problems with stomach emptying
      * Diabetes, if the body is unable to make enough insulin
      * Weight loss

## Before the Procedure

Meet with your doctor to make sure medical problems such as diabetes, high
blood pressure, and heart or lung problems are in good control.

Your doctor may ask you to have these medical tests done before your surgery:

      * Blood tests (complete blood count, electrolytes, liver and kidney tests)
      * Chest x-ray or electrocardiogram (ECG), for some people
      * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) to examine the bile and pancreatic ducts
      * CT scan
      * Ultrasound 

During the days before the surgery:

      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin).
      * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking can slow healing. Ask your health care provider for help quitting.
      * Let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. If you do get sick, your surgery may need to be postponed. 

On the day of the surgery:

      * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the surgery.
      * Take any drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

Most people stay in the hospital 1 to 2 weeks after surgery.

      * At first, you will be in the surgery area or intensive care where you can be watched closely.
      * You will get fluids and medicines through an intravenous (IV) catheter in your arm. You will have a tube in your nose.
      * You will have pain in your abdomen after surgery. You will get pain medicine through the IV.
      * You may have drains in your abdomen to prevent blood and other fluid from building up. The tubes and drains will be removed as you heal.

After you go home:

      * Follow any discharge and self-care instructions you're given.
      * You will have a follow-up visit with your doctor 1 to 2 weeks after you leave the hospital. Be sure to keep this appointment.

You may require further treatment after you recover from surgery. Ask your
doctor about your situation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pancreatic surgery can be risky. If surgery is done, it should take place at a
hospital where many of these procedures are performed.

## Alternative Names

Pancreaticoduodenectomy; Whipple procedure; Open distal pancreatectomy and
splenectomy; Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy; Pancreaticogastrostomy

## References

Jesus-Acosta AD, Narang A, Mauro L, Herman J, Jaffee EM, Laheru DA. Carcinoma
of the pancreas. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 78.

Pucci MJ, Kennedy EP, Yeo CJ. Pancreatic cancer: clinical aspects, assessment,
and management. In: Jarnagin WR, ed. _Blumgart's Surgery of the Liver, Biliary
Tract, and Pancreas_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

Shires GT, Wilfong LS. Pancreatic cancer, cystic pancreatic neoplasms, and
other nonendocrine pancreatic tumors. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

