Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003892.htm    
                                Description: The secretin stimulation test measures the ability of the pancreas to respond to a hormone called secretin. The small intestine produces secretin when partially digested food from the stomach moves into    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Secretin stimulation test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003892.htm

# Secretin stimulation test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The secretin stimulation test measures the ability of the pancreas to respond
to a hormone called secretin. The small intestine produces secretin when
partially digested food from the stomach moves into the area.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider inserts a tube through your nose and into your
stomach. The tube is then moved into the first part of the small intestine
(duodenum). You are given secretin through a vein (intravenously). The fluids
released from the pancreas into the duodenum are removed through the tube over
the next 1 to 2 hours.

Sometimes, the fluid can be collected during an endoscopy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked to not eat or drink anything, including water, for 12 hours
before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have a gagging feeling as the tube is inserted.

## Why the Test is Performed

Secretin causes the pancreas to release a fluid that containsÂ digestive
enzymes. These enzymes break down food and help the body absorb nutrients.

The secretin stimulation test is done to check the digestive function of the
pancreas. The following diseases may prevent the pancreas from working
properly:

      * Chronic pancreatitis
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Pancreatic cancer

In these conditions, there may be a lack of digestive enzymes or other
chemicals in the fluid that comes from the pancreas. This can reduce the
body's ability to digest food and absorb nutrients.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly depending on the lab doing the test.
Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal values may mean that the pancreas is not working properly.

## Risks

There is a slight risk of the tube being placed through the windpipe and into
the lungs, instead of through the esophagus and into the stomach.

## Alternative Names

Pancreatic function test

## Images

      * ![Secretin stimulation test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8909t.jpg)Secretin stimulation test

## References

Pandol SJ. Pancreatic secretion. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 56.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cystic
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CysticFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Cystic
Fibrosis _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

