Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000228.htm    
                                Description: VIPoma is a very rare cancer that usually grows from cells in the pancreas called islet cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

VIPoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000228.htm

# VIPoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

VIPoma is a very rare cancer that usually grows from cells in the pancreas
called islet cells.

## Causes

VIPoma causes cells in the pancreas to produce a high level of a hormone
called vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). This hormone increases secretions
from the intestines. It also relaxes some of the smooth muscles in the
gastrointestinal system.

The exact cause of VIPomas is not known.

VIPomas are often diagnosed in adults, most commonly around age 50. Women are
more likely to be affected than men. This cancer is rare. Each year, only
about 1 in 10 million people are diagnosed with a VIPoma.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of VIPoma may include any of the following:

      * Abdominal pain and cramping
      * Diarrhea (watery, and often in large amounts)
      * Dehydration
      * Flushing or redness of the face
      * Muscle cramps due to low blood potassium (hypokalemia)
      * Nausea
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history and symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood chemistry tests (basic or comprehensive metabolic panel)
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * MRI of the abdomen
      * Stool examination for cause of diarrhea and electrolyte levels
      * VIP level in the blood 

## Treatment

The first goal of treatment is to correct dehydration. Fluids are often given
through a vein (intravenous fluids) to replace fluids lost through diarrhea.

The next goal is to slow the diarrhea. Medicines can help control diarrhea.
One such medicine is octreotide. It is a manmade form of a natural hormone
that blocks the action of VIP.

The best chance of a cure is surgery to remove the tumor. If the tumor has not
spread to other organs, surgery can often cure the condition.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery can usually cure VIPomas. But, in one third to one half of people, the
tumor has spread by the time of diagnosis and cannot be cured.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cancer spread (metastasis)
      * Cardiac arrest from low blood potassium level
      * Dehydration 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have watery diarrhea for more than 2 to 3 days, call your provider.

## Alternative Names

Vasoactive intestinal peptide-producing tumor; VIPoma syndrome; Pancreatic
endocrine tumor

## Images

      * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8883t.jpg)Pancreas

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (islet
cell tumors) treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/pancreatic/hp/pnet-treatment-pdq. Updated February 8,
2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

Schneider DF, Mazeh H, Lubner SJ, Jaume JC, Chen H. Cancer of the endocrine
system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 71.

Vella A. Gastrointestinal hormones and gut endocrine tumors. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

