Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000393.htm    
                                Description: A pancreatic islet cell tumor is a rare tumor of the pancreas that starts from a type of cell called the islet cell.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreatic islet cell tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000393.htm

# Pancreatic islet cell tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pancreatic islet cell tumor is a rare tumor of the pancreas that starts from
a type of cell called the islet cell.

## Causes

In the healthy pancreas, cells called islet cells produce hormones that
regulate a several bodily functions. These include blood sugar level and the
production of stomach acid.

Tumors that arise from islet cells of the pancreas can also produce a variety
of hormones, which can lead to specific symptoms.

Pancreatic islet cell tumors can be noncancerous (benign) or cancerous
(malignant).

Islet cell tumors include:

      * Gastrinoma (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome)
      * GlucagonomaÂ 
      * Insulinoma

A family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia, type I (MEN I) is a risk
factor for the development of islet cell tumors.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on whichÂ hormone is made by the tumor.

For example, insulinomas produce insulin, which lowers blood sugar level.
Symptoms may include:

      * Feeling tired or weak 
      * Shaking or sweating 
      * Headache 
      * Hunger 
      * Nervousness, anxiety, or feeling irritable 
      * Unclear thinking or feeling uneasy 
      * Double or blurry vision 
      * Fast or pounding heartbeat 

If your blood sugar level gets too low, you may faint, have a seizure, or even
go into a coma.

Gastrinomas make the hormone gastrin, which tells the body to make stomach
acid. Symptoms may include:

      * Abdominal pain 
      * Diarrhea 
      * Ulcers in the stomach and small bowel 
      * Vomiting blood (occasionally) 

Glucagonomas make the hormone glucagon, which helps the body raise blood sugar
level. Symptoms can include:

      * Diabetes 
      * Red, blistery rash in the groin or buttocks
      * Weight loss
      * Frequent urination and thirst 

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests may vary, depending upon the symptoms, but may include:

      * Fasting glucose level
      * Gastrin level
      * Glucose tolerance test
      * Secretin stimulation test for pancreas
      * Blood glucagon level
      * Blood insulin C-peptide
      * Blood insulin level 

Imaging tests may be done:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * Endoscopic ultrasound
      * MRI of abdomen

A blood sample may also be taken from a vein in the pancreas for testing.

Sometimes, surgery is needed to diagnose and treat this condition. During this
procedure, the surgeon examines the pancreas by hand and with ultrasound.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the type of tumor and if it is cancerous.

Cancerous tumors can grow quickly and spread to other organs. They may not be
treatable. Tumors are often removed with surgery, if possible.

If cancer cells spread to the liver, a part of the liver may also be removed,
if possible. If the cancer is widespread, chemotherapy may be used to try and
shrink the tumors.

If the abnormal production of hormones is causing symptoms, you may receive
medicines to counteract their effects. For example, with gastrinomas, the
overproduction of gastrin leads to too much acid in the stomach. Medicines
that block stomach acid release can reduce symptoms.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You may be cured if the tumors are surgically removed before they have spread
to other organs. If tumors are cancerous, chemotherapy may be used, but it
usually cannot cure people.

Life-threatening problems (such as very low blood sugar) can occur due to
excess hormone production, or if the cancer spreads throughout the body.

## Possible Complications

Complications of these tumors include:

      * Diabetes 
      * Hormone crises (if the tumor releases certain types of hormones) 
      * Severe low blood sugar (from insulinomas) 
      * Severe ulcers in the stomach and small intestine (from gastrinomas) 
      * Spread of the tumor to the liver 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of these tumors,
especially if you have a family history of MEN I.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for these tumors.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - pancreas; Cancer - pancreatic; Pancreatic cancer; Islet cell tumors;
Islet of Langerhans tumor; Neuroendocrine tumors; Peptic ulcer - islet cell
tumor; Hypoglycemia - islet cell tumor

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8883t.jpg)Pancreas

## References

Mauro LA, Herman JM, Jaffee EM, Laheru DA. Carcinoma of the pancreas. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 81.

National Cancer Institute website. Pancreatic cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/pancreatic/hp/child-pancreatic-
treatment-pdq. Updated October 25, 2019. Accessed October 28, 2019.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Version
3.2017. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/pancreatic.pdf. Updated
September 11, 2017. Accessed March 22, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team. 10-28-19: Editorial update.

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

