Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000326.htm    
                                Description: Glucagonoma is a very rare tumor of the islet cells of the pancreas, which leads to an excess of the hormone glucagon in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucagonoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000326.htm

# Glucagonoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glucagonoma is a very rare tumor of the islet cells of the pancreas, which
leads to an excess of the hormone glucagon in the blood.

## Causes

Glucagonoma is usually cancerous (malignant). The cancer tends to spread and
get worse.

This cancer affects the islet cells of the pancreas. As a result, the islet
cells produce too much of the hormone glucagon.

The cause is unknown. Genetic factors play a role in some cases. A family
history of the syndrome multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN I) is a risk
factor.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of glucagonoma may include any of the following:

      * Glucose intolerance (body has problem breaking down sugars)
      * High blood sugar (hyperglycemia)
      * Diarrhea
      * Excessive thirst (due to high blood sugar)
      * Frequent urination (due to high blood sugar)
      * Increased appetite
      * Inflamed mouth and tongue
      * Nighttime (nocturnal) urination
      * Skin rash on face, abdomen, buttocks, or feet that comes and goes, and moves around
      * Weight loss 

In most cases, the cancer has already spread to the liver when it is
diagnosed.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history and symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Glucagon level in the blood
      * Glucose level in the blood 

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the tumor is usually recommended. The tumor does not usually
respond to chemotherapy.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Approximately 60% of these tumors are cancerous. It is common for this cancer
to spread to the liver. Only about 20% of people can be cured with surgery.

If the tumor is only in the pancreas and surgery to remove it is successful,
people have a 5-year survival rate of 85%.

## Possible Complications

The cancer can spread to the liver. High blood sugar level can cause problems
with metabolism and tissue damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice symptoms of glucagonoma.

## Alternative Names

MEN I - glucagonoma

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (islet
cell tumors) treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/pancreatic/hp/pnet-treatment-pdq. Updated February 8,
2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

Schneider DF, Mazeh H, Lubner SJ, Jaume JC, Chen H. Cancer of the endocrine
system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 71.

Vella A. Gastrointestinal hormones and gut endocrine tumors. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

