Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003560.htm    
                                Description: Trypsinogen is a substance that is normally produced in the pancreas and released into the small intestine. Trypsinogen is converted to trypsin. Then it starts the process needed to break down proteins    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trypsinogen test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003560.htm

# Trypsinogen test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trypsinogen is a substance that is normally produced in the pancreas and
released into the small intestine. Trypsinogen is converted to trypsin. Then
it starts the process needed to break down proteins into their building blocks
(called amino acids).

A test can be done to measure the amount of trypsinogen in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is taken from a vein. The blood sample is sent to a lab for
testing.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There are no special preparations. You may be asked to not eat or drink for 8
hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted to draw blood.
Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to detect diseases of the pancreas.

The test is also used to screen newborn babies for cystic fibrosis.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased levels of trypsinogen may be due to:

      * Abnormal production of pancreatic enzymes
      * Acute pancreatitis
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Pancreatic cancer

Very low levels may be seen in chronic pancreatitis.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

Other tests used to detect pancreas diseases may include:

      * Serum amylase
      * Serum lipase 

## Alternative Names

Serum trypsin; Trypsin-like immunoreactivity; Serum trypsinogen;
Immunoreactive trypsin

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Trypsin- plasma or serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1125-1126.

Forsmark CE. Chronic pancreatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 1/1/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cystic
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CysticFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Cystic
Fibrosis _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

