Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000768.htm    
                                Description: A brain tumor is a group (mass) of abnormal cells that grow in the brain.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain tumor - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000768.htm

# Brain tumor - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A brain tumor is a group (mass) of abnormal cells that grow in the brain.

This article focuses on primary brain tumors in children.

## Causes

The cause of primary brain tumors is usually unknown. Some primary brain
tumors are associated with other syndromes or have a tendency to run in a
family:

      * Not cancerous (benign)
      * Invasive (spread to nearby areas)
      * Cancerous (malignant) 

Brain tumors are classified based on:

      * The exact site of the tumor
      * The type of tissue involved
      * Whether it is cancerous 

Brain tumors can directly destroy brain cells. They can also indirectly damage
cells by pushing on other parts of the brain. This leads to swelling and
increased pressure inside the skull.

Tumors can occur at any age. Many tumors are more common at a certain age. In
general, brain tumors in children are very rare.

COMMON TUMOR TYPES

Astrocytomas are usually noncancerous, slow-growing tumors. They most commonly
develop in children ages 5 to 8. Also called low-grade gliomas, these are the
most common brain tumors in children.

Medulloblastomas are the most common type of childhood brain cancer. Most
medulloblastomas occur before age 10.

Ependymomas are a type of childhood brain tumor that can be benign
(noncancerous) or malignant (cancerous). The location and type of ependymoma
determine the type of therapy needed to control the tumor.

Brainstem gliomas are very rare tumors that occur almost only in children. The
average age at which they develop is about 6. The tumor may grow very large
before causing symptoms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may be subtle and only gradually become worse, or they may occur very
quickly.

Headaches are often the most common symptom. But only very rarely do children
with headaches have a tumor. Headache patterns that may occur with brain
tumors include:

      * Headaches that are worse when waking up in the morning and go away within a few hours
      * Headaches that get worse with coughing or exercise, or with a change in body position
      * Headaches that occur while sleeping and with at least one other symptom such as vomiting or confusion 

Sometimes, the only symptoms of brain tumors are mental changes, which may
include:

      * Changes in personality and behavior
      * Unable to concentrate
      * Increased sleep
      * Memory loss
      * Problems with reasoning 

Other possible symptoms are:

      * Unexplained frequent vomiting
      * Gradual loss of movement or feeling in an arm or leg
      * Hearing loss with or without dizziness
      * Speech difficulty
      * Unexpected vision problem (especially if it occurs with a headache), including vision loss (usually of peripheral vision) in one or both eyes, or double vision
      * Problems with balance
      * Weakness or numbness 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Infants may have the
following physical signs:

      * Bulging fontanelle
      * Enlarged eyes
      * No red reflex in the eye
      * Positive Babinski reflex
      * Separated sutures 

Older children with brain tumors may have the following physical signs or
symptoms:

      * Headache
      * Vomiting
      * Vision changes
      * Change how the child walks (gait)
      * Weakness of a specific body part
      * Head tilt

The following tests may be used to detect a brain tumor and identify its
location:

      * CT scan of the head
      * MRI of the brain
      * Examination of the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size and type of tumor and the child's general
health. The goals of treatment may be to cure the tumor, relieve symptoms, and
improve brain function or the child's comfort.

Surgery is needed for most primary brain tumors. Some tumors may be completely
removed. In cases where the tumor cannot be removed, surgery may help reduce
pressure and relieve symptoms. Chemotherapy or radiation therapy may be used
for certain tumors.

The following are treatments for specific types of tumors:

      * Astrocytoma: Surgery to remove the tumor is the main treatment. Chemotherapy or radiation therapy may also be necessary.
      * Brainstem gliomas: Surgery may not be possible because of the tumor's location deep in the brain. Radiation is used to shrink the tumor and prolong life. Sometimes targeted chemotherapy can be used.
      * Ependymomas: Treatment includes surgery. Radiation and chemotherapy may be necessary.
      * Medulloblastomas: Surgery alone does not cure this type of tumor. Chemotherapy with or without radiation is often used in combination with surgery. 

Medicines used to treat children with primary brain tumors include:

      * Corticosteroids to reduce brain swelling
      * Diuretics (water pills) to reduce brain swelling and pressure
      * Anticonvulsants to reduce or prevent seizures
      * Pain medicines
      * Chemotherapy to help shrink the tumor or prevent the tumor from growing back 

Comfort measures, safety measures, physical therapy, occupational therapy, and
other such steps may be required to improve quality of life.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you and your
child feel less alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a child does depends on many things, including the type of tumor. In
general, about 3 out of 4 children survive at least 5 years after being
diagnosed.

Long-term brain and nervous system problems may result from the tumor itself
or from treatment. Children may have problems with attention, focus, or
memory. They may also have problems processing information, planning, insight,
or initiative or desire to do things.

Children younger than age 7, especially younger than age 3, seem to be at
greatest risk of these complications.

Parents need to make sure that children receive support services at home and
at school.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a provider if a child develops headaches that do not go away or other
symptoms of a brain tumor.

Go to the emergency room if a child develops any of the following:

      * Physical weakness
      * Change in behavior
      * Severe headache of unknown cause
      * Seizure of unknown cause
      * Vision changes
      * Speech changes 

## Alternative Names

Glioblastoma multiforme - children; Ependymoma - children; Glioma - children;
Astrocytoma - children; Medulloblastoma - children; Neuroglioma - children;
Oligodendroglioma - children; Meningioma - children; Cancer - brain tumor
(children)

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain radiation - discharge
      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
      * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor

## Images

      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
      * ![Primary brain tumor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8893t.jpg)Primary brain tumor

## References

Kieran MW, Chi SN, Manley PE, et al. Tumors of the brain and spinal cord. In:
Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and
Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 57.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood brain and spinal cord tumors
treatment overview (PDQ): health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/brain/hp/child-brain-treatment-pdq. Updated August 2,
2017. Accessed August 26, 2019.

Zaky W, Ater JL, Khatua S. Brain tumors in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 524.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Adam S. Levy, MD, Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, The
Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, NY. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Childhood Brain
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodBrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Brain Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

