Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001030.htm    
                                Description: Retinoblastoma is a rare eye tumor that usually occurs in children. It is a malignant (cancerous) tumor of the part of the eye called the retina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinoblastoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001030.htm

# Retinoblastoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinoblastoma is a rare eye tumor that usually occurs in children. It is a
malignant (cancerous) tumor of the part of the eye called the retina.

## Causes

Retinoblastoma is caused by a mutation in a gene that controls how cells
divide. As a result, cells grow out of control and become cancerous.

In about half the cases, this mutation develops in a child whose family has
never had eye cancer. In other cases, the mutation occurs in several family
members. If the mutation runs in the family, there is a 50% chance that an
affected person's children will also have the mutation. These children will
therefore have a high risk of developing retinoblastoma themselves.

The cancer most often affects children younger than 7 years old. It is most
commonly diagnosed in children 1 to 2 years old.

## Symptoms

One or both eyes may be affected.

The pupil of the eye may appear white or have white spots. A white glow in the
eye is often seen in photographs taken with a flash. Instead of the typical
"red eye" from the flash, the pupil may appear white or distorted.

Other symptoms can include:

      * Crossed eyes
      * Double vision
      * Eyes that do not align
      * Eye pain and redness
      * Poor vision
      * Differing iris colors in each eye 

If the cancer has spread, bone pain and other symptoms may occur.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a complete physical exam, including an
eye exam. The following tests may be done:

      * CT scan or MRI of the head
      * Eye exam with dilation of the pupil
      * Ultrasound of the eye (head and eye echoencephalogram) 

## Treatment

Treatment options depend on the size and location of the tumor:

      * Small tumors may be treated by laser surgery or cryotherapy (freezing).
      * Radiation is used for both a tumor that is within the eye and for larger tumors.
      * Chemotherapy may be needed if the tumor has spread beyond the eye.
      * The eye may need to be removed (a procedure called enucleation) if the tumor does not respond to other treatments. In some cases, it may be the first treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cancer has not spread beyond the eye, almost all people can be cured. A
cure, however, may require aggressive treatment and even removal of the eye in
order to be successful.

If the cancer has spread beyond the eye, the likelihood of a cure is lower and
depends on how the tumor has spread.

## Possible Complications

Blindness can occur in the affected eye. The tumor can spread to the eye
socket through the optic nerve. It may also spread to the brain, lungs, and
bones.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if signs or symptoms of retinoblastoma are present,
especially if your child's eyes look abnormal or appear abnormal in
photographs.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling can help families understand the risk for retinoblastoma.
It is especially important when more than one family member has had the
disease, or if retinoblastoma occurs in both eyes.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - retina; Cancer - retina;Â Eye cancer - retinoblastoma

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Cheng KP. Ophthalmology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli
and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

Kim JW, Mansfield NC, Murphree AL. Retinoblastoma. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SR,
Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Weidemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 132.

Tarek N, Herzog CE. Retinoblastoma. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 502.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeCancer_thumb.jpg)Eye Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

