Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000542.htm    
                                Description: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is cancer that starts inside bone marrow. This is the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps form all blood cells. The cancer grows from cells that would normally turn    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute myeloid leukemia - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000542.htm

# Acute myeloid leukemia - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is cancer that starts inside bone marrow. This is
the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps form all blood cells. The
cancer grows from cells that would normally turn into white blood cells.

Acute means the disease grows quickly and usually has an aggressive course.

## Causes

AML isÂ one of the most common types of leukemia among adults.

AML is more common in men than women.

The bone marrow helps the body fight infections and makes other blood
components. People with AML have many abnormal immature cells inside their
bone marrow. The cells grow very quickly, and replace healthy blood cells. As
a result, people with AML are more likely to have infections. They also have
an increased risk of bleeding as the numbers of healthy blood cells decrease.

Most of the time, a health care provider cannot tell you what caused AML.
However, the following thingsÂ can lead to some types of leukemia, including
AML:

      * Blood disorders, including polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and myelodysplasia 
      * Certain chemicals (for example, benzene) 
      * Certain chemotherapy drugs, including etoposide and drugs known as alkylating agents 
      * Exposure to certain chemicals and harmful substances 
      * Radiation 
      * Weak immune system due to an organ transplant 

Problems with your genes may also cause development of AML.

## Symptoms

AML does not have any specific symptoms. Symptoms seen are mainly due to the
related conditions. Symptoms of AML may include any of the following:

      * Bleeding from the nose
      * Bleeding and swelling (rare) in the gums 
      * Bruising
      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Fever and fatigue 
      * Heavy menstrual periods
      * Pale skin
      * Shortness of breath (gets worse with exercise)
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The provider will perform a physical exam. There may be signs of a swollen
spleen, liver, or lymph nodes. Tests done include:

      * A complete blood count (CBC) may show anemia and a low number of platelets. A white blood cell count (WBC) can be high, low, or normal.
      * Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will show if there are any leukemia cells.

If your provider learns you do have this type of leukemia, further tests will
be done to determine the specific type of AML. Subtypes are based on specific
changes in genes (mutations) and how the leukemia cells appear under the
microscope.

## Treatment

Treatment involves using medicines (chemotherapy) to kill the cancer cells.
Most types of AML are treated the same way in the beginning, with more than
one chemotherapy medicine.

Chemotherapy kills normal cells, too. This may cause side effects such as:

      * Increased risk of bleeding
      * Increased risk for infection (your doctor may want to keep you away from other people to prevent infection)
      * Weight loss (you will need to eat extra calories)
      * Mouth sores

Other supportive treatments for AML may include:

      * Antibiotics to treat infection
      * Red blood cell transfusions to fight anemia
      * PlateletÂ transfusions to control bleeding 

A bone marrow (stem cell) transplant may be tried. This decision is decided by
several factors, including:

      * Your age and overall health
      * How high your white blood cell count was
      * Certain genetic changes in the leukemia cells
      * The availability of donors

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When a bone marrow biopsy shows no evidence of AML, you are said to be in
remission. How well you do depends on your overall health and the genetic
subtype of the AML cells.

Remission is not the same as a cure. More therapy is usually needed, either in
the form of more chemotherapy or a bone marrow transplant.

With treatment, younger people with AML tend to do better than those who
develop the disease at an older age. The 5-year survival rate is much lower in
older adults than in younger people. Experts say this is partly due to the
fact that younger people are better able to tolerate strong chemotherapy
medicines. Also, leukemia in older people tends to be more resistant to
current treatments.

If the cancer does not come back (relapse) within 5 years of the diagnosis,
you are likely cured.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you:

      * Develop symptoms of AML
      * Have AML and have a fever that will not go away or other signs of infection

## Prevention

If you work around radiation or chemicals linked to leukemia, always wear
protective gear.

## Alternative Names

Acute myelogenous leukemia; AML; Acute granulocytic leukemia; Acute
nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL); Leukemia - acute myeloid (AML); Leukemia -
acute granulocytic; Leukemia - nonlymphocytic (ANLL)

## Patient Instructions

      * Bone marrow transplant - discharge

## Images

      * ![Auer rods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1441t.jpg)Auer rods
      * ![Acute monocytic leukemia - skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1942t.jpg)Acute monocytic leukemia - skin
      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Appelbaum FR. Acute leukemias in adults. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 98.

Faderl S, Kantarjian HM. Clinical manifestations and treatment of acute
myeloid leukemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 59.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult acute myeloid leukemia treatment
(PDQ) â health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/adult-
aml-treatment-pdq. Updated February 7, 2018. Accessed June 11, 2018.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Myeloid Leukemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

