Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003911.htm    
                                Description: The Pap test checks for cervical cancer. Cells scraped from the opening of the cervix are examined under a microscope. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pap test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003911.htm

# Pap test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Pap test checks for cervical cancer. Cells scraped from the opening of the
cervix are examined under a microscope. The cervix is the lower part of the
uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.

This test is sometimes called a Pap smear.

![Pap smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17116.jpg)

## How the Test is Performed

You lie on a table and place your feet in stirrups. Your health care provider
gently places an instrument called a speculum into the vagina to open it
slightly. This allows the provider to see inside the vagina and cervix.

Cells are gently scraped from the cervix area. The sample of cells is sent to
a lab for examination.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider about all the medicines you are taking. Some birth control
pills that contain estrogen or progestin may affect test results.

Also tell your provider if you:

      * Have had an abnormal Pap test
      * Might be pregnant 

DO NOT do the following for 24 hours before the test:

      * Douche (douching should never be done)
      * Have intercourse
      * Use tampons 

Try not to schedule your Pap test while you have your period (are
menstruating). Blood may make the Pap test results less accurate. If you are
having unexpected bleeding, do not cancel your exam. Your provider will
determine if the Pap test can still be done.

Empty your bladder just before the test.

![Female reproductive
anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1112.jpg)

## How the Test will Feel

A Pap test causes little to no discomfort for most women. It can cause some
discomfort, similar to menstrual cramps. You may also feel some pressure
during the exam.

You may bleed a little bit after the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The Pap test is a screening test for cervical cancer. Most cervical cancers
can be detected early if a woman has routine Pap tests.

Screening should start at age 21.

After the first test:

      * You should have a Pap test every 3 years to check for cervical cancer.
      * If you are over age 30 and you also have HPV testing done, and both the Pap test and HPV test are normal, you can be tested every 5 years. HPV (human papillomavirus) is a virus that causes genital warts and cervical cancer.
      * Most women can stop having Pap tests after age 65 to 70 as long as they have had 3 negative tests within the past 10 years. 

You may not need to have a Pap test if you have had a total hysterectomy
(uterus and cervix removed) and have not had an abnormal Pap test, cervical
cancer, or other pelvic cancer. Discuss this with your provider.

## Normal Results

A normal result means there are no abnormal cells present. The Pap test is not
100% accurate. Cervical cancer may be missed in a small number of cases. Most
of the time, cervical cancer develops very slowly, and follow-up Pap tests
should find any changes in time for treatment.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results are grouped as follows:

ASCUS or AGUS:

      * This result means there are atypical cells, but it is uncertain or unclear what these changes mean.
      * The changes may be due to HPV.
      * They may be due to inflammation of unknown cause.
      * They may be due to lack of estrogen as occurs in menopause.  

      * They may also mean there are changes that may lead to cancer.
      * These cells could be precancerous and they could be coming from the outside of the cervix or inside the uterus.

LOW-GRADE DYSPLASIA (LSIL) OR HIGH-GRADE DYSPLASIA (HSIL):

      * This means changes that may lead to cancer are present.
      * The risk of progression toÂ cervical cancer is greater with HSIL.

CARCINOMA IN SITU (CIS):

      * This result most often means the abnormal changes are likely to lead to cervical cancer if not treated

ATYPICAL SQUAMOUS CELLS (ASC):

      * Abnormal changes have been found and may be HSIL

ATYPICAL GLANDULAR CELLS (AGC):

      * Cell changes that may lead to cancer are seen in the upper part of the cervical canal or inside the uterus.

When a Pap test shows abnormal changes, further testing or follow-up is
needed. The next step depends on the results of the Pap test, your previous
history of Pap tests, and risk factors you may have for cervical cancer.

For minor cell changes, providers will recommend another Pap test or repeat
HPV testingÂ in 6 to 12 months.

Follow-up testing or treatment may include:

      * Colposcopy-directed biopsy \-- Colposcopy is a procedure in which the cervix is magnified with a binocular like tool called a colposcope. Small biopsies are often obtained during this procedure to determine the extent of the problem.
      * An HPV test to check for the presence of the HPV virus types most likely to cause cancer.
      * Cervix cryosurgery.
      * Cone biopsy.

## Alternative Names

Papanicolaou test; Pap smear; Cervical cancer screening - Pap test; Cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia - Pap; CIN - Pap; Precancerous changes of the cervix
- Pap; Cervical cancer - Pap; Squamous intraepithelial lesion - Pap; LSIL -
Pap; HSIL - Pap; Low-grade Pap; High-grade Pap; Carcinoma in situ - Pap; CIS -
Pap; ASCUS - Pap; Atypical glandular cells - Pap; AGUS - Pap; Atypical
squamous cells - Pap; HPV - Pap; Human papilloma virus - Pap cervix - Pap;
Colposcopy - Pap

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Pap smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17116t.jpg)Pap smear
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
      * ![Cervical erosion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17035t.jpg)Cervical erosion

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Practice bulletin no.
140: management of abnormal cervical cancer screening test results and
cervical cancer precursors. (Reaffirmed 2018) _Obstet Gynecol._
2013;122(6):1338-1367. PMID: 24264713 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24264713.

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Practice bulletin no.
157: cervical cancer screening and prevention. _Obstet Gynecol._
2016;127(1):e1-e20. PMID: 26695583 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26695583.

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. Practice
advisory: cervical cancer screening (update). August 29, 2018.
www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Practice-Advisories/Practice-
Advisory-Cervical-Cancer-Screening-Update. Published August 29, 2018.
Reaffirmed November 8, 2019. Accessed March 17, 2020.

Newkirk GR. Pap smear and related techniques for cervical cancer screening.
In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care._ 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 120.

Salcedo MP, Baker ES, Schmeler KM. Intraepithelial neoplasia of the lower
genital tract (cervix, vagina, vulva): etiology, screening, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Saslow D, Solomon D, Lawson HW, et al. American Cancer Society, American
Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology, and American Society for
Clinical Pathology screening guidelines for the prevention and early detection
of cervical cancer. _CA Cancer J Clin._ 2012;62(3):147-172. PMID: 22422631
pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27661651-practice-bulletin-no-168-cervical-cancer-
screening-and-prevention/.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Final recommendation statement.
Cervical cancer: screening.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/UpdateSummaryFinal/cervical-
cancer-screening2. Updated August 2018. Accessed January 22, 2020.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
03/17/2020.

![Cervical Cancer
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancerScreening_thumb.jpg)Cervical
Cancer Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

