Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001510.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal cancer is cancer of the vagina, a female reproductive organ.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001510.htm

# Vaginal cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal cancer is cancer of the vagina, a female reproductive organ.

## Causes

Most vaginal cancers occur when another cancer, such as cervical or
endometrial cancer, spreads. This is called secondary vaginal cancer.

Cancer that starts in the vagina is called primary vaginal cancer. This type
of cancer is rare. Most primary vaginal cancers start in skinlike cells called
squamous cells. This cancer is known as squamous cell cancer. The other types
include:

      * Adenocarcinoma
      * Melanoma
      * Sarcoma

The cause of squamous cell carcinoma of the vagina is unknown. But a history
of cervical cancer is common in women with squamous cell carcinoma of the
vagina.

Most women with squamous cell cancer of the vagina are over 50.

Adenocarcinoma of the vagina usually affects younger women. The average age at
which this cancer is diagnosed is 19. Women whose mothers took the medicine
diethylstilbestrol (DES) to prevent miscarriages during the first 3 months of
pregnancy are more likely to develop vaginal adenocarcinoma.

Sarcoma of the vagina is a rare cancer that mainly occurs in infancy and early
childhood.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of vaginal cancer can include any of the following:

      * Bleeding after having sex
      * Painless vaginal bleeding and discharge not due to normal period
      * Pain in the pelvis or vagina

Some women have no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

In women with no symptoms, the cancer may be found during a routine pelvic
exam and Pap smear.

Other tests to diagnose vaginal cancer include:

      * Biopsy
      * Colposcopy

Other tests that may be done to check if the cancer has spread include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scanÂ and MRI of the abdomen and pelvis 
      * PET scan

Other tests that may be done to know the stage of the vaginal cancer include:

      * Cystoscopy
      * Barium enema
      * Intravenous urographyÂ (x-ray of kidney, ureters and bladder using contrast material)

## Treatment

Treatment of vaginal cancer depends on the type of cancer and how far the
disease has spread.

Surgery is sometimes used to remove the cancer. But most women are treated
with radiation. If the tumor is cervical cancer that has spread to the vagina,
radiation and chemotherapy are both given.

Sarcoma may be treated with a combination of chemotherapy, surgery, and
radiation.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group whose members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook for women with vaginal cancer depends on the stage of disease and the
specific type of tumor.

## Possible Complications

Vaginal cancer may spread to other areas of the body. Complications can occur
from radiation, surgery, and chemotherapy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you notice bleeding
after sex or have persistent vaginal bleeding or discharge.

## Prevention

There are no definite ways to prevent this cancer. You can increase your
chance of early detection by getting regular yearly pelvic examinations and
Pap smears.

## Alternative Names

Vaginal cancer; Cancer - vagina; Tumor - vaginal

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
      * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Bodurka DC, Frumovitz M. Malignant diseases of the vagina: intraepithelial
neoplasia, carcinoma, sarcoma. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA,
eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
31.

National Cancer Institute website. Vaginal cancer treatment (PDQ) â health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/vaginal/hp/vaginal-treatment-pdq.
Updated February 6, 2018. Accessed April 9, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Vaginal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalCancer_thumb.jpg)Vaginal Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

