Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003890.htm    
                                Description: Anoscopy is a method to look at the:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003890.htm

# Anoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anoscopy is a method to look at the:

      * Anus
      * Anal canal
      * Lower rectum

## How the Test is Performed

The procedure is usually done in a doctor's office.

A digital rectal exam is done first. Then, a lubricated instrument called an
anoscope is placed a few inches or centimeters into the rectum. You will feel
some discomfort when this is done.

The anoscope has a light on the end, so your health care provider can see the
entire area. A sample for biopsy can be taken, if needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Often, there is no preparation needed. Or, you may receive a laxative, enema,
or other preparation to empty your bowel. You should empty your bladder before
the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

There will be some discomfort during the procedure. You may feel the need to
have a bowel movement. You may feel a pinch when a biopsy is taken.

You can usually return to normal activities after the procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be used to determine whether you have:

      * Anal fissuresÂ (small split or tear in the lining of the anus)
      * Anal polypsÂ (growth on the lining of the anus)
      * Foreign object in the anus
      * HemorrhoidsÂ (swollen veins in the anus)
      * Infection
      * Inflammation
      * Tumors 

## Normal Results

The anal canal appears normal in size, color, and tone. There is no sign of:

      * Bleeding
      * Polyps
      * Hemorrhoids
      * Other abnormal tissue

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may include:

      * Abscess (collection of pus in the anus)
      * Fissures
      * Foreign object in the anus
      * Hemorrhoids
      * Infection
      * Inflammation
      * Polyps (non-cancerous or cancerous)
      * Tumors 

## Risks

There are few risks. If a biopsy is needed, there is a slight risk of bleeding
and mild pain.

## Alternative Names

Anal fissures - anoscopy; Anal polyps - anoscopy; Foreign object in the anus -
anoscopy; Hemorrhoids - anoscopy; Anal warts - anoscopy

## Images

      * ![Rectal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9545t.jpg)Rectal biopsy

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs JM. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Beard JM, Osborn J. Common office procedures. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 28.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Cancer _Read more_

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Disorders _Read more_

![Hemorrhoids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemorrhoids2_thumb.jpg)Hemorrhoids
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

