Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000704.htm    
                                Description: The fecal immunochemical test (FIT) is a screening test for colon cancer. It tests for hidden blood in the stool, which can be an early sign of cancer. FIT only detects human blood from the lower intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fecal immunochemical test (FIT)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000704.htm

# Fecal immunochemical test (FIT)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The fecal immunochemical test (FIT) is a screening test for colon cancer. It
tests for hidden blood in the stool, which can be an early sign of cancer. FIT
only detects human blood from the lower intestines. Medicines and food do not
interfere with the test. So it tends to be more accurate and have fewer false
positive results than other tests.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be given the test to use at home. Be sure to follow the instructions
provided. Most tests have the following steps:

      * Flush the toilet before having a bowel movement.
      * Put the used toilet paper in the waste bag provided. Do not put it into the toilet bowl.
      * Use the brush from the kit to brush the surface of the stool and then dip the brush into the toilet water.
      * Touch the brush on the space indicated on the test card.
      * Add the brush to the waste bag and throw it away.
      * Send the sample to the lab for testing.
      * Your doctor may ask you to test more than one stool sample before sending it in. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to do anything to prepare for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may be squeamish about collecting the sample. But you will not
feel anything during the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Blood in the stool may be an early sign of colon cancer. This test is
performed to detect blood in the stool that you cannot see. This type of
screening can detect problems that can be treated before cancer develops or
spreads.

Talk with your doctor about when you should have colon screenings.

## Normal Results

A normal result means the test did not detect any blood in the stool. However,
because cancers in the colon may not always bleed, you may need to do the test
a few times to confirm that there is no blood in your stool.

## What Abnormal Test Results Mean

If the FIT results come back positive for blood in the stool, your doctor will
want to perform other tests, usually including a colonoscopy. The FIT test
does not diagnose cancer. Screening tests such as a sigmoidoscopy or
colonoscopy can also help detect cancer. Both the FIT test and other
screenings can catch colon cancer early, when it is easier to treat.

## Risks

There are no risks from using the FIT.

## Alternative Names

Immunochemical fecal occult blood test; iFOBT; Colon cancer screening - FIT

## References

Itzkowitz SH, Potack J. Colonic polyps and polyposis syndromes. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Lawler M, Johnston B, Van Schaeybroeck S, et al. Colorectal cancer. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
74.

Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al. Colorectal cancer screening:
recommendations for physicians and patients from the U.S. Multi-Society Task
Force on Colorectal Cancer. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2017;112(7):1016-1030. PMID:
28555630 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28555630.

Wolf AMD, Fontham ETH, Church TR, et al. Colorectal cancer screening for
average-risk adults: 2018 guideline update from the American Cancer Society.
_CA Cancer J Clin_. 2018;68(4):250-281. PMID: 29846947
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29846947.

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Colorectal Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

