Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007747.htm    
                                Description: Cologuard is a screening test for colon and rectal cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cologuard

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007747.htm

# Cologuard

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cologuard is a screening test for colon and rectal cancer.

The colon sheds cells from its lining every day. These cells pass with the
stool through the colon. The cancer cells may have DNA changes in certain
genes. Cologuard detects the altered DNA. The presence of abnormal cells or
blood in the stool may indicate cancer or precancer tumors.

## How the Test is Performed

The Cologuard testing kit for colon and rectal cancer must ordered by your
health care provider. It will be sent by mail to your address. You collect the
sample at home and send it back to the lab for testing.

The Cologuard testing kit will contain a sample container, a tube, preserving
liquid, labels and instructions on how to collect the sample. When you are
ready to have a bowel movement, use the Cologuard testing kit to collect your
stool sample.

Read the instructions that come with the testing kit carefully. Wait until you
are ready to have a bowel movement. Collect the sample only when it is
possible to ship it within 24 hours. The sample must reach the lab in 72 hours
(3 days).

DO NOT collect the sample if:

      * You have diarrhea.
      * You are menstruating.
      * You have rectal bleeding due to hemorrhoids. 

Follow these steps to collect the sample:

      * Read all instructions that come with the kit.
      * Use the brackets provided with the testing kit to fix the sample container on your toilet seat.
      * Use the toilet as usual for your bowel movement.
      * Try not to let urine get into the sample container.
      * Do not put toilet paper into the sample container.
      * Once your bowel movement is over, remove the sample container from the brackets and keep it on a flat surface.
      * Follow instructions to collect a little sample in the tube provided with the testing kit.
      * Pour the preserving liquid in the sample container and close the lid tightly.
      * Label the tubes and the sample container according to the instructions, and place them in the box.
      * Store the box at room temperature, away from direct sunlight and heat.
      * Ship the box within 24 hours to the lab using the label provided. 

The results of the test will be sent to your provider in two weeks.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The Cologuard test does not require any preparation. You do not need to change
your diet or medicines before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test requires you to have a normal bowel movement. It will not feel any
different from your regular bowel movements. You can collect the sample at
your home privately.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to screen for colon and rectal cancer and abnormal growths
(polyps) in the colon or rectum.

Your provider may suggest Cologuard testing once every 3 years after age 50
years. The test is recommended if you are between ages 50 to 75 years and have
an average risk of colon cancer. This means that you do not have:

      * Personal history of colon polyps and colon cancer
      * Family history of colon cancer
      * Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis)

## Normal Results

The normal result (negative result) will indicate that:

      * The test did not detect blood cells or altered DNA in your stool.
      * You do not need further testing for colon cancer if you have an average risk of colon or rectal cancer.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal result (positive result) suggests that the test found some pre-cancer
or cancer cells in your stool sample. However, the Cologuard test does not
diagnose cancer. You will need further tests to make a diagnosis of cancer.
Your provider will likely suggest a colonoscopy.

## Risks

There is no risk involved in taking the sample for Cologuard test.

Screening tests carry a small risk of:

      * False-positives (your test results are abnormal, but you do NOT have colon cancer or pre-malignant polyps)
      * False-negatives (your test is normal even when you have colon cancer)

## Considerations

It is unclear yet whether the use of Cologuard will lead to better outcomes
compared with other methods used to screen for colon and rectal cancer.

## Alternative Names

Cologuard; Colon cancer screening - Cologuard; Stool DNA test - Cologuard;
FIT-DNA stool test; Colon precancer screening - Cologuard

## Images

      * ![Large intestine \(colon\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19220t.jpg)Large intestine (colon)

## References

Cotter TG, Burger KN, Devens ME, et al. Long-term follow-up of patients having
false-positive multitarget stool DNA tests after negative screening
colonoscopy: the LONG-HAUL cohort study. _Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev_.
2017;26(4):614-621. PMID: 27999144Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27999144

Johnson DH, Kisiel JB, Burger KN, et al. Multitarget stool DNA test: clinical
performance and impact on yield and quality of colonoscopy for colorectal
cancer screening. _Gastrointest Endosc_. 2017;85(3):657-665.e1. PMID: 27884518
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27884518.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) website. Clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN Guidelines) Colorectal cancer screening. Version
1.2018. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/colorectal_screening.pdf.
Updated March 26, 2018. Accessed December 1, 2018.

Prince M, Lester L, Chiniwala R, Berger B. Multitarget stool DNA tests
increases colorectal cancer screening among previously noncompliant Medicare
patients. _World J Gastroenterol_. 2017;23(3):464-471. PMID: 28210082.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28210082.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Final recommendation statement:
colorectal cancer: screening. June 2017.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/colorectal-
cancer-screening2.

## Review Date 1/8/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

