Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007379.htm    
                                Description: Total abdominal colectomy is the removal of the large intestine from the lowest part of the small intestine (ileum) to the rectum. After it is removed, the end of the small intestine is sewn to the rectum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Total abdominal colectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007379.htm

# Total abdominal colectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Total abdominal colectomy is the removal of the large intestine from the
lowest part of the small intestine (ileum) to the rectum. After it is removed,
the end of the small intestine is sewn to the rectum.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia before your surgery. This will make you
sleep and pain free.

During the surgery:

      * Your surgeon will make a surgical cut in your belly.
      * The surgeon will remove your large intestine. Your rectum and anus will be left in place.
      * Your surgeon will sew the end of your small intestine to your rectum. 

Today, some surgeons perform this operation using a camera. The surgery is
done with a few small surgical cuts, and sometimes a larger cut big enough for
the surgeon to assist with the operation. The advantages of this surgery,
which is called laparoscopy, are a faster recovery, less pain, and only a few
small cuts.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The procedure is done for people who have:

      * Crohn disease that has not spread to the rectum or the anus
      * Some colon cancer tumors, when the rectum is not affected
      * Severe constipation, called colonic inertia 

## Risks

Total abdominal colectomy is most often safe. Your risk depends on your
general overall health. Ask your health care provider about these possible
complications.

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots
      * Infection 

Risks of having this surgery are:

      * Bleeding inside your belly.
      * Damage to nearby organs in the body.
      * Scar tissue may form in the belly and cause a blockage of the small intestine.
      * Leakage of stool from the connection between the small intestine and the rectum. This can cause an infection or abscess.
      * Scarring of the connection between the small intestine and the rectum. This can cause a blockage of the intestine.
      * Wound breaking open.
      * Wound infection. 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider what medicines you are taking, even medicines,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription. Ask which medicines
you should still take on the day of your surgery.

Before you have surgery, talk with your provider about the following things:

      * Intimacy and sexuality
      * Pregnancy
      * Sports
      * Work 

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

      * Two weeks before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), Naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and others.
      * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help.
      * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illnesses you may have before your surgery.

The day before your surgery:

      * Follow your provider's instructions about what to eat and drink. You may be asked to drink only clear liquids, such as broth, clear juice, and water at some point during the day.
      * You will be told when to stop eating and drinking. You may be asked to stop eating solid food after midnight, but you might be able to have clear liquids up until 2 hours before surgery.
      * Your provider may ask you to use enemas or laxatives to clear out your intestines. You will get instructions on how to use them. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * Take the medicines you were told to take with a small sip of water.
      * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will be in the hospital for 3 to 7 days. By the second day, you will
probably be able to drink clear liquids. You will slowly be able to add
thicker fluids and then soft foods to your diet as your bowels begin to work
again.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After this procedure, you can expect to have 4 to 6 bowel movements a day. You
may need more surgery and an ileostomy if you have Crohn disease and it
spreads to your rectum.

Most people who have this surgery recover fully. They are able to do most of
the activities they were doing before their surgery. This includes most
sports, travel, gardening, hiking, and other outdoor activities, and most
types of work.

## Alternative Names

Ileorectal anastomosis; Subtotal colectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Bland diet
      * Ileostomy and your child
      * Ileostomy and your diet
      * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
      * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
      * Ileostomy - discharge
      * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
      * Living with your ileostomy
      * Low-fiber diet
      * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
      * Types of ileostomy
      * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## References

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NM, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 03-13-19: Editorial update.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![Constipation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Constipation_thumb.jpg)Constipation
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

