Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000832.htm    
                                Description: Colorectal cancer risk factors are things that increase the chance that you could get cancer. Some risk factors you can control, such as drinking alcohol. Others, such as family history, you cannot control.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding your colorectal cancer risk

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000832.htm

# Understanding your colorectal cancer risk

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Colorectal cancer risk factors are things that increase the chance that you
could get cancer. Some risk factors you can control, such as drinking alcohol.
Others, such as family history, you cannot control.

The more risk factors you have, the more your risk increases. But it does not
mean you will get cancer. Many people with risk factors never get cancer.
Other people get colorectal cancer but do not have any known risk factors.

Learn about your risk and what steps you can take to prevent colorectal
cancer.

## Risk Factors

We do not know what causes colorectal cancer, but we do know some of the
things that may increase the risk of getting it, such as:

      * Age. Your risk increases after age 50
      * You have had colon polyps or colorectal cancer
      * You have inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease
      * Family history of colorectal cancer or polyps in parents, siblings, or children
      * Gene changes (mutations) in certain genes (rare)
      * African American or Ashkenazi Jews (people of Eastern European Jewish descent)
      * Type 2 diabetes
      * Diet high in red and processed meats
      * Physical inactivity
      * Obesity
      * Smoking
      * Heavy alcohol use

## How to Reduce Your Risk

Some risk factors are in your control, and some are not. Many of the risk
factors above, such as age and family history, can't be changed. But just
because you have risk factors you can't control doesn't mean you can't take
steps to lower your risk.

Start by getting colorectal cancer screenings starting at age 50. You may want
to start screening earlier if you have a family history. Screening can help
prevent colorectal cancer, and it is one of the best things you can do to
lower your risk.

Certain lifestyle habits also may help lower your risk:

      * Maintain a healthy weight
      * Eat a low-fat foods with plenty of vegetables and fruits
      * Limit red meat and processed meat
      * Get regular exercise
      * Limit alcohol to no more than 1 drink per day for women and 2 drinks per day for men
      * DO NOT smoke 
      * Supplement with vitamin D (talk to your health care provider first)

You can also have genetic testing done to assess your risk for colorectal
cancer. If you have a strong family history of the disease, talk with your
provider about testing.

Low-dose aspirin may be recommended for some people who are at very high risk
for colorectal cancer found with genetic testing. It is NOT recommended for
most people because of side effects.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you:

      * Have questions or concerns about your colorectal cancer risk
      * Are interested in genetic testing for colorectal cancer risk
      * Are due for a screening test

## Alternative Names

Colon cancer - prevention; Colon cancer - screening

## References

Itzkowitz SH, Potack J. Colonic polyps and polyposis syndromes. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

National Cancer Institute website. Colorectal cancer prevention (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/colorectal/hp/colorectal-
prevention-pdq. Updated March 1, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

US Preventive Services Task Force; Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, et al.
Screening for colorectal cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;315(23):2564-2575. PMID: 27304597
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27304597.

Van Schaeybroeck S, Lawler M, Johnston B, et al. Colorectal cancer. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 77.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Colorectal Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

