Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001408.htm    
                                Description: Neuroblastoma is a very rare type of cancerous tumor that develops from nerve tissue. It usually occurs in infants and children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neuroblastoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001408.htm

# Neuroblastoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neuroblastoma is a very rare type of cancerous tumor that develops from nerve
tissue. It usually occurs in infants and children.

## Causes

Neuroblastoma can occur in many areas of the body. It develops from the
tissues that form the sympathetic nervous system. This is the part of the
nervous system that controls body functions, such as heart rate and blood
pressure, digestion, and levels of certain hormones.

Most neuroblastomas begin in the abdomen, in the adrenal gland, next to the
spinal cord, or in the chest. Neuroblastomas can spread to the bones. Bones
include those in the face, skull, pelvis, shoulders, arms, and legs. It can
also spread to the bone marrow, liver, lymph nodes, skin, and around the eyes
(orbits).

The cause of the tumor is not known. Experts believe that a defect in the
genes may play a role. Half of tumors are present at birth. Neuroblastoma is
most commonly diagnosed in children before the age of 5. Each year there are
around 700 new cases in the United States. The disorder is slightly more
common in boys.

In most people, the tumor has spread when it is first diagnosed.

## Symptoms

The first symptoms are usually fever, a general sick feeling (malaise), and
pain. There may also be loss of appetite, weight loss, and diarrhea.

Other symptoms depend on the site of the tumor, and may include:

      * Bone pain or tenderness (if the cancer has spread to the bones)
      * Difficulty breathing or a chronic cough (if the cancer has spread to the chest)
      * Enlarged abdomen (from a large tumor or excess fluid)
      * Flushed, red skin
      * Pale skin and bluish color around the eyes
      * Profuse sweating
      * Rapid heart rate (tachycardia) 

Brain and nervous system problems may include:

      * Inability to empty the bladder
      * Loss of movement (paralysis) of the hips, legs, or feet (lower extremities)
      * Problems with balance
      * Uncontrolled eye movements or leg and feet movements (called opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome, or "dancing eyes and dancing feet") 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the child. Depending on the location of
the tumor:

      * There may be a lump or mass in the abdomen.
      * The liver may be enlarged, if the tumor has spread to the liver.
      * There may be high blood pressure and a fast heart rate if the tumor is in an adrenal gland.
      * Lymph nodes may be swollen. 

X-ray or other imaging tests are done to locate the main (primary) tumor and
to see where it has spread. These include:

      * Bone scan
      * Bone x-rays 
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of chest and abdomen
      * MRI scan of chest and abdomen 

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Biopsy of tumor
      * Bone marrow biopsy
      * Complete blood count (CBC) showing anemia or other abnormality
      * Coagulation studies and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
      * Hormone tests (blood tests to check levels of hormones such as catecholamines)
      * MIBG scan (imaging test to confirm the presence of neuroblastoma)
      * Urine 24-hour test for catecholamines, homovanillic acid (HVA), and vanillymandelic acid (VMA) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on:

      * Location of the tumor
      * How much and where the tumor has spread
      * The person's age 

In certain cases, surgery alone is enough. Often, though, other therapies are
needed as well. Anticancer medicines (chemotherapy) may be recommended if the
tumor has spread. Radiation therapy may also be used.

High-dose chemotherapy, autologous stem cell transplantation, and
immunotherapy are also being used.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you and your
child not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome varies. In very young children, the tumor may go away on its own,
without treatment. Or, the tissues of the tumor may mature and develop into a
non-cancerous (benign) tumor called a ganglioneuroma, which can be surgically
removed. In other cases, the tumor spreads quickly.

Response to treatment also varies. Treatment is often successful if the cancer
has not spread. If it has spread, neuroblastoma is harder to cure. Younger
children often do better than older children.

Children treated for neuroblastoma may be at risk of getting a second,
different cancer in the future.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Spread (metastasis) of the tumor
      * Damage and loss of function of involved organs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of neuroblastoma. Early
diagnosis and treatment improves the chance of a good outcome.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - neuroblastoma

## Images

      * ![Neuroblastoma in the liver - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1190t.jpg)Neuroblastoma in the liver - CT scan

## References

Dome JS, Rodriguez-Galindo C, Spunt SL, Santana VM. Pediatric solid tumors.
In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 95.

National Cancer Institute website. Neuroblastoma treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/neuroblastoma/hp/neuroblastoma-
treatment-pdq. Updated August 17, 2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neuroblastoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neuroblastoma_thumb.jpg)Neuroblastoma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

