Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003613.htm    
                                Description: Catecholamines are chemicals made by nerve tissue (including the brain) and the adrenal gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Catecholamines - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003613.htm

# Catecholamines - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Catecholamines are chemicals made by nerve tissue (including the brain) and
the adrenal gland.

The main types of catecholamines are dopamine, norepinephrine, and
epinephrine. These chemicals break down into other components, which leave
your body through your urine.

A urine test can be done to measure the level of catecholamines in your body.
Separate urine tests may be done to measure related substances.

Catecholamines can also be measured with a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

For this test, you must collect your urine in a special bag or container every
time you urinate for 24-hour period.

      * On day 1, urinate over the toilet when you wake up in the morning and discard that urine.
      * Urinate into the special container every time you use the bathroom for the next 24 hours. Keep it in the refrigerator or a cool place during the collection period.
      * On day 2, urinate into the container in the morning again when you wake up.
      * Label the container with your name, the date, the time of completion, and return it as instructed. 

For an infant, thoroughly wash the area where urine exits the body.

      * Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).
      * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
      * For females, place the bag over the labia.
      * Diaper as usual over the secured bag. 

This procedure may take a few tries. An active baby can move the bag causing
urine to go into the diaper.

Check the infant often and change the bag after the infant has urinated into
it. Drain the urine from the bag into the container provided by your health
care provider.

Deliver the sample to the laboratory or to your provider as soon as possible.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Stress and heavy exercise may affect the test results.

Some foods can increase catecholamines in your urine. You may need to avoid
the following foods and beverages for several days before the test:

      * Bananas
      * Chocolate
      * Citrus fruits
      * Cocoa
      * Coffee
      * Licorice
      * Tea
      * Vanilla

Many medicines can interfere with test results.

      * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
      * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is usually done to diagnose an adrenal gland tumor called
pheochromocytoma. It may also be used to diagnose neuroblastoma. Urine
catecholamine levels are increased in most people with neuroblastoma.

The urine test for catecholamines may also be used to monitor those who are
receiving treatment for these conditions.

## Normal Results

All of the catecholamines are broken down into inactive substances that appear
in the urine:

      * Dopamine becomes homovanillic acid (HVA)
      * Norepinephrine becomes normetanephrine and vanillylmandelic acid (VMA)
      * Epinephrine becomes metanephrine and VMA 

The following normal values are the amount of the substance found in the urine
over a 24-hour period:

      * Dopamine: 65 to 400 micrograms (mcg)/24 hours (420 to 2612 nmol/24 hours)
      * Epinephrine: 0.5 to 20 mcg/24 hours
      * Metanephrine: 24 to 96 mcg/24 hours (some laboratories give the range as 140 to 785 mcg/24 hours)
      * Norepinephrine: 15 to 80 mcg/24 hours (89 to 473 nmol/24 hours)
      * Normetanephrine: 75 to 375 mcg/24 hours
      * Total urine catecholamines: 14 to 110 mcg/24 hours
      * VMA: 2 to 7 milligrams (mg)/24 hours (10 to 35 mcmol/24 hours)

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
yourÂ provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Elevated levels of urinary catecholamines may indicate:

      * Acute anxiety
      * Ganglioneuroblastoma (very rare)
      * Ganglioneuroma (very rare)
      * Neuroblastoma (rare)
      * Pheochromocytoma (rare)
      * Severe stress 

The test may also be performed for:

      * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

Several foods and drugs, as well as physical activity and stress, can affect
the accuracy of this test.

## Alternative Names

Dopamine - urine test; Epinephrine - urine test; Adrenalin - urine test; Urine
metanephrine; Normetanephrine; Norepinephrine - urine test; Urine
catecholamines; VMA; HVA; Metanephrine; Homovanillic acid (HVA)

## Images

      * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
      * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
      * ![Catecholamine urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9160t.jpg)Catecholamine urine test

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Young WF. Adrenal medulla, catecholamines, and pheochromocytoma. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 228.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neuroblastoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neuroblastoma_thumb.jpg)Neuroblastoma
_Read more_

![Pheochromocytoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pheochromocytoma_thumb.jpg)Pheochromocytoma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

