Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001436.htm    
                                Description: Ganglioneuroblastoma is an intermediate tumor that arises from nerve tissues. An intermediate tumor is one that is between benign (slow-growing and unlikely to spread) and malignant (fast-growing, aggressive,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ganglioneuroblastoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001436.htm

# Ganglioneuroblastoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ganglioneuroblastoma is an intermediate tumor that arises from nerve tissues.
An intermediate tumor is one that is between benign (slow-growing and unlikely
to spread) and malignant (fast-growing, aggressive, and likely to spread).

## Causes

Ganglioneuroblastoma mostly occurs in children ages 2 to 4 years. The tumor
affects boys and girls equally. It occurs rarely in adults. Tumors of the
nervous system have different degrees of differentiation. This is based on how
the tumor cells look under the microscope. It can predict whether or not they
are likely to spread.

Benign tumors are less likely to spread. Malignant tumors are aggressive, grow
quickly, and often spread. A ganglioneuroma is less malignant in nature. A
neuroblastoma (occurring in children over 1 year old) is usually malignant.

A ganglioneuroblastoma may be only in one area or it may be widespread, but it
is usually less aggressive than a neuroblastoma. The cause is unknown.

## Symptoms

Most commonly, a lump can be felt in the abdomen with tenderness.Â

This tumor may also occur at other sites, including:

      * Chest cavity
      * Neck
      * Legs

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may do the following tests:

      * Fine-needle aspiration of the tumor  

      * Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy
      * Bone scan
      * CT scan or MRI scan of the affected area
      * PET scan  

      * Metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scan
      * Special blood and urine tests
      * Surgical biopsy to confirm diagnosis

## Treatment

Depending on the type of tumor, treatment can involve surgery, and possibly
chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

Because these tumors are rare, they should be treated in a specialized center
by experts who have experience with them.

## Support Groups

Organizations that provide support and additional information:

      * Children's Oncology Group -- www.childrensoncologygroup.org
      * The Neuroblastoma Children's Cancer Society -- www.neuroblastomacancer.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

TheÂ outlook depends on how far the tumor has spread,Â and whether some areas
of the tumor containÂ more aggressive cancer cells.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

      * Complications of surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy
      * Spread of the tumor into surrounding areas

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you feel a lump or growth on your child's body. Make
sure children receive routine examinations as part of their well-child care.

## References

Asa SL, Fischer SE. Adrenal gland. In: Gattuso P, Reddy VB, David O, Spitz DJ,
Haber MH, eds. _Differential Diagnosis in Surgical Pathology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Myers JL. Mediastinum. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney JK, Myers JL, eds.
_Rosai and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neuroblastoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neuroblastoma_thumb.jpg)Neuroblastoma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

