Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003561.htm    
                                Description: This test measures the levels of catecholamines in the blood. Catecholamines are hormones made by the adrenal glands.Â The three catecholamines are epinephrine (adrenalin), norepinephrine, and dopamine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Catecholamine blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003561.htm

# Catecholamine blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test measures the levels of catecholamines in the blood. Catecholamines
are hormones made by the adrenal glands.Â The three catecholamines are
epinephrine (adrenalin), norepinephrine, and dopamine.

Catecholamines are more often measured with a urine test than with a blood
test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will likely be told not to eat anything (fast) for 10 hours before the
test. You may be allowed to drink water during this time.

The accuracy of the test can be affected by certain foods and medicines. Foods
that can increase catecholamine levels include:

      * Coffee
      * Tea
      * Bananas
      * Chocolate
      * Cocoa
      * Citrus fruits
      * Vanilla 

You should not eat these foods for several days before the test. This is
especially true if both blood and urine catecholamines are to be measured.

You should also avoid stressful situations and vigorous exercise. Both can
affect the accuracy of the test results.

Medicines and substances that can increase catecholamine measurements include:

      * Acetaminophen
      * Albuterol
      * Aminophylline
      * Amphetamines
      * Buspirone
      * Caffeine
      * Calcium channel blockers
      * Cocaine
      * Cyclobenzaprine
      * Levodopa
      * Methyldopa
      * Nicotinic acid (large doses)
      * Phenoxybenzamine
      * Phenothiazines
      * Pseudoephedrine
      * Reserpine
      * Tricyclic antidepressants 

Medicines that can decrease catecholamine measurements include:

      * Clonidine
      * Guanethidine
      * MAO inhibitors 

If you take any of the above medicines, check with your health care provider
before the blood test about whether you should stop taking your medicine.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain.
Others feel a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a
slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Catecholamines are released into the blood when a person is under physical or
emotional stress. The main catecholamines are dopamine, norepinephrine, and
epinephrine (which used to be called adrenalin).

This test is used to diagnose or rule out certain rare tumors, such as
pheochromocytoma or neuroblastoma. It may also be done in patients with those
conditions to determine if treatment is working.

## Normal Results

The normal range for epinephrine is 0 to 140 pg/mL (764.3 pmol/L).

The normal range for norepinephrine is 70 to 1700 pg/mL (413.8 to 10048.7
pmol/L).

The normal range for dopamine is 0 to 30 pg/mL (195.8 pmol/L).Â

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
labs use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal levels of blood catecholamines may suggest:

      * Acute anxiety
      * Ganglioblastoma (very rare tumor)
      * Ganglioneuroma (very rare tumor)
      * Neuroblastoma (rare tumor)
      * Pheochromocytoma (rare tumor)
      * Severe stress 

Additional conditions under which the test may be performed include multiple
system atrophy.

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Norepinephrine - blood; Epinephrine - blood; Adrenalin - blood; Dopamine -
blood

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. CatecholaminesÂ - plasma. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:302-305.

Guber HA, Farag AF, Lo J, Sharp J. Evaluation of endocrine function. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods.Â_ 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;Â 2017:chapÂ 24.

Young WF. Adrenal medulla, catecholamines, and pheochromocytoma. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 228.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Neuroblastoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neuroblastoma_thumb.jpg)Neuroblastoma
_Read more_

![Pheochromocytoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pheochromocytoma_thumb.jpg)Pheochromocytoma
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

