Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000902.htm    
                                Description: Vulvar cancer is cancer that starts in the vulva. Vulvar cancer most often affects the labia, the folds of skin outside the vagina. In some cases, vulvar cancer starts on the clitoris or in glands on the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vulvar cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000902.htm

# Vulvar cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vulvar cancer is cancer that starts in the vulva. Vulvar cancer most often
affects the labia, the folds of skin outside the vagina. In some cases, vulvar
cancer starts on the clitoris or in glands on the sides of the vaginal
opening.

## Causes

Most vulvar cancers begin in skin cells called squamous cells. Other types of
cancers found on the vulva are:

      * Adenocarcinoma
      * Basal cell carcinoma
      * Melanoma
      * Sarcoma 

Vulvar cancer is rare. Risk factors include:

      * Human papilloma virus (HPV, or genital warts) infection in women under age 50
      * Chronic skin changes, such as lichen sclerosis or squamous hyperplasia in women over age 50
      * History of cervical cancer or vaginal cancer
      * Smoking 

Women with a condition called vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) have a
high risk of developing vulvar cancer that spreads. Most cases of VIN, though,
never lead to cancer.

Other possible risk factors may include:

      * History of abnormal Pap smears
      * Having many sexual partners
      * Having first sexual intercourse at 16 or younger 

## Symptoms

Women with this condition will often have itching around the vagina for years.
They may have used different skin creams. They may also have bleeding.

Other skin changes that may occur around the vulva:

      * Mole or freckle, which may be pink, red, white, or gray
      * Skin thickening or lump
      * Skin sore (ulcer) 

Other symptoms:

      * Pain or burning with urination
      * Pain with intercourse
      * Unusual odor 

Some women with vulvar cancer have no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The following tests are used to diagnose vulvar cancer:

      * Biopsy
      * CT scan or MRI of the pelvis to look for cancer spread
      * Pelvic examination to look for any skin changes
      * Pelvic ultrasound
      * Colposcopy

## Treatment

Treatment involves surgery to remove the cancer cells. If the tumor is large
(more than 2 cm) or has grown deeply into the skin, the lymph nodes in the
groin area may also be removed.

Radiation, with or without chemotherapy, may be used to treat advanced tumors
or vulvar cancer that comes back.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women with vulvar cancer who are diagnosed and treated at an early stage
do well. But a woman's outcome depends on:

      * The size of the tumor
      * The type of vulvar cancer
      * Whether the cancer has spread 

The cancer commonly comes back at or near the site of the original tumor.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Spread of the cancer to other areas of the body
      * Side effects of radiation, surgery, or chemotherapy 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any of these symptoms for more than
2 weeks:

      * Local irritation
      * Skin color change
      * Sore on the vulva 

## Prevention

Practicing safer sex may decrease your risk for vulvar cancer. This includes
using condoms to protect against sexually transmitted infections (STIs).

A vaccine is available to protect against certain forms of HPV infection. The
vaccine is approved to prevent cervical cancer and genital warts. It may help
prevent other cancers linked to HPV, such as vulvar cancer. The vaccine is
given to young girls before they become sexually active, and to adolescents
and women up to age 26.

Routine pelvic exams can help diagnose vulvar cancer at an earlier stage.
Earlier diagnosis improves your chances that treatment will be successful.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - vulva; Cancer - perineum; Cancer - vulvar; Genital warts - vulvar
cancer; HPV - vulvar cancer

## Images

      * ![Female perineal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9073t.jpg)Female perineal anatomy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Signs and symptoms of vulvar cancers and pre-
cancers. www.cancer.org/cancer/vulvar-cancer/detection-diagnosis-
staging/signs-symptoms.html. Updated January 16, 2018. Accessed April 9, 2018.

Frumovitz M, Bodurka DC. Neoplastic diseases of the vulva: lichen sclerosus,
intraepithelial neoplasia, paget disease, and carcinoma. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

Jhingran A, Russell AH, Seiden MV, et al. Cancers of the cervix, vulva, and
vagina. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 87.

National Cancer Institute website. Vulvar cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/vulvar/hp/vulvar-treatment-pdq.
Updated January 31, 2018. Accessed April 9, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Vulvar Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VulvarCancer_thumb.jpg)Vulvar
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

