Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000266.htm    
                                Description: A colorectal polyp is a growth on the lining of the colon or rectum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colorectal polyps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000266.htm

# Colorectal polyps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A colorectal polyp is a growth on the lining of the colon or rectum.

## Causes

Polyps of the colon and rectum are most often benign. This means they are not
a cancer. You may have one or many polyps. They become more common with age.
There are many types of polyps.

Adenomatous polyps are a common type. They are gland-like growths that develop
on the mucous membrane that lines the large intestine. They are also called
adenomas and are most often one of the following:

      * Tubular polyp, which protrudes out in the lumen (open space) of the colon
      * Villous adenoma, which is sometimes flat and spreading, and is more likely to become a cancer 

When adenomas become cancerous, they are known as adenocarcinomas.
Adenocarcinomas are cancers that originate in glandular tissue cells.
Adenocarcinoma is the most common type of colorectal cancer.

Other types of polyps are:

      * Hyperplastic polyp, which rarely, if ever, develop into cancer
      * Serrated polyp, which is less common, but may develop into cancer over time 

Polyps bigger than 1 centimeter (cm) have a higher cancer risk than polyps
smaller than 1 centimeter. Risk factors include:

      * Age
      * Family history of colon cancer or polyps
      * A type of polyp called villous adenoma 

A small number of people with polyps may also be linked to some inherited
disorders, including:

      * Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP)
      * Gardner syndrome (a type of FAP)
      * Juvenile polyposis (disease that causes many benign growths in the intestine, usually before 20 years old)
      * Lynch syndrome (HNPCC, a disease that raises the chance of many types of cancer, including in the intestine)
      * Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (disease that causes intestinal polyps, usually in the small intestine and usually benign) 

## Symptoms

Polyps usually do not have symptoms. When present, symptoms may include:

      * Blood in the stools
      * Change in bowel habit
      * Fatigue caused by losing blood over time 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. A large polyp in the
rectum may be felt during a rectal exam.

Most polyps are found with the following tests:

      * Barium enema (rarely done)
      * Colonoscopy
      * Sigmoidoscopy
      * Stool test for hidden (occult) blood
      * Virtual colonoscopy
      * Stool DNA test 
![Barium
enema](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1064.jpg)![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1083.jpg)

## Treatment

Colorectal polyps should be removed because some can develop into cancer. In
most cases, the polyps may be removed during a colonoscopy.

For people with adenomatous polyps, new polyps can appear in the future. You
should have a repeat colonoscopy usually 1 to 10 years later, depending on:

      * Your age and general health
      * Number of polyps you had 
      * Size and type of the polyps
      * Family history of polyps or cancer

In rare cases, when polyps are very likely to turn into cancer or too large to
remove during colonoscopy, the provider will recommend a colectomy. This is
surgery to remove part of the colon that has the polyps.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook is excellent if the polyps are removed. Polyps that are not removed
can develop into cancer over time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * BloodÂ in a bowel movement
      * Change in bowel habit

## Prevention

To reduce your risk of developing polyps:

      * Eat foods low in fat and eat more fruits, vegetables, and fiber.
      * Do not smoke and do not drink alcohol in excess.
      * Maintain a normal body weight.
      * Get regular exercise. 

Your provider can order a colonoscopy or other screening tests:

      * These tests help prevent colon cancer by finding and removing polyps before they become cancer. This may reduce the chance of developing colon cancer, or at least help catch it in its most treatable stage.
      * Most people should begin these tests at age 50. Those with a family history of colon cancer or colon polyps may need to be screened at an earlier age or more often. 

Taking aspirin, naproxen, ibuprofen, or similar medicines may help reduce the
risk for new polyps. Be aware that these medicines can have serious side
effects if taken for a long time. Side effects include bleeding in the stomach
or colon and heart disease. Talk with your provider before taking these
medicines.

## Alternative Names

Intestinal polyps; Polyps - colorectal; Adenomatous polyps; Hyperplastic
polyps; Villous adenomas; Serrated polyp; Serrated adenoma; Precancerous
polyps; Colon cancer - polyps; Bleeding - colorectal polyps

## Images

      * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy
      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

American Gastroenterological Association. Early detection of colorectal cancer
(CRC) and adenomatous polyps clinical decision support tool.
_Gastroenterology_. 2014;147(4):925-926. PMID: 25151575
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25151575.

Itzkowitz SH, Potack J. Colonic polyps and polyposis syndromes. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.Â 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Lieberman DA, Rex DK, Winawer SJ, Giardiello FM, Johnson DA, Levin TR; United
States Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. Guidelines for
colonoscopy surveillance after screening and polypectomy: a consensus update
by the US Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. _Gastroenterolog_ y.
2012;143(3):844-857. PMID: 22763141 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22763141.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): colorectal cancer screening. Version
2.2019. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/colorectal_screening.pdf.
Updated August 2, 2019. Accessed September 25, 2019.

Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al. Colorectal cancer screening:
recommendations for physicians and patients from the U.S. Multi-Society Task
Force on Colorectal Cancer. _Am J Gastroenterol._ 2017;112(7):1016-1030. PMID:
28555630 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28555630.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Internal
review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update 09/25/2019.

![Colonic
Polyps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicPolyps_thumb.jpg)Colonic Polyps
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

