Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000277.htm    
                                Description: Liver metastases refer to cancer that has spread to the liver from somewhere else in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liver metastases

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000277.htm

# Liver metastases

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Liver metastases refer to cancer that has spread to the liver from somewhere
else in the body.

Liver metastases are not the same as cancer that starts in the liver, which is
calledÂ hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Causes

Almost any cancer can spread to the liver. Cancers thatÂ can spread to the
liver include:

      * Breast cancer
      * Colorectal cancer
      * Esophageal cancer
      * Lung cancer
      * Melanoma
      * Pancreatic cancer
      * Stomach cancer

The risk for cancer spreading to the liver depends on the location (site) of
the original cancer. A liver metastasis may be present when the original
(primary) cancer is diagnosed or it may occur months or years after the
primary tumor is removed.

## Symptoms

In some cases, there are no symptoms. When symptoms occur, they may include:

      * Decreased appetite
      * Confusion
      * Fever, sweating
      * JaundiceÂ (yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes)
      * Nausea
      * Pain, often in the upper right part of the abdomen
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done to diagnose liver metastases include:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Liver function tests
      * Liver biopsy
      * MRI of the abdomen
      * PET scan
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on:

      * The primary cancer site 
      * How many liver tumors you have 
      * Whether the cancer has spread to other organs 
      * Your overall health 

Types of treatments that may be used are described below.

SURGERY

When the tumor is only in one or a few areas of the liver, the cancer may be
removed with surgery.

CHEMOTHERAPY

When the cancer has spread to the liver and other organs, whole-body
(systemic) chemotherapy is usually used. The type of chemotherapy used depends
on the original type of cancer.

When the cancer has only spread in the liver, systemic chemotherapy may still
be used.

Chemoembolization is a type of chemotherapy to one area. A thin tube called a
catheter is inserted into an artery in the groin. The catheter is threaded
into the artery in the liver. Cancer-killing medicine is sent through the
catheter. Then another medicine is sent through the catheter to block blood
flow to the part of the liver with the tumor. This "starves" the cancer cells.

OTHER TREATMENTS

      * Alcohol (ethanol) injected into the liver tumor -- A needle is sent through the skin directly into the liver tumor. The alcohol kills cancer cells.
      * Heat, using radio or microwave energy -- A large needle called a probe is placed into the center of the liver tumor. Energy is sent through thin wires called electrodes, which are attached to the probe. The cancer cells are heated and die. This method is called radiofrequency ablation when radio energy is used. It is called microwave ablation when microwave energy is used.
      * Freezing, also called cryotherapy -- A probe is placed in contact with the tumor. A chemical is sent through the probe that causes ice crystals to form around the probe. The cancer cells are frozen and die.
      * Radioactive beads -- These beads deliver radiation to kill the cancer cells and block the artery that goes to the tumor. This procedure is called radioembolization. It is done in much the same way as chemoembolization. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the location of the original cancer and how much it
has spread to the liver or anywhere else. In rare cases, surgery to remove the
liver tumors leads to a cure. This is usually only possible when there are a
limited number of tumors in the liver.

In most cases, cancer that has spread to the liver cannot be cured. People
whose cancer has spread to the liver often die of their disease. However,
treatments may help shrink tumors, improve life expectancy, and relieve
symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Complications are often the result of tumors spreading to a large area of the
liver.

They can include:

      * Blockage of the flow of bile
      * Decreased appetite
      * Fever
      * Liver failure (usually only in the late stages of disease)
      * Pain
      * Weight loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Anyone who has had a type of cancer that can spread to the liver should be
aware of the signs and symptoms listed above, and call the doctor if any of
these develop.

## Prevention

Early detection of some types of cancer may prevent the spread of these
cancers to the liver.

## Alternative Names

Metastases to the liver; Metastatic liver cancer; Liver cancer - metastatic;
Colorectal cancer - liver metastases; Colon cancer - liver metastases;
Esophageal cancer - liver metastases; Lung cancer - liver metastases; Melanoma
- liver metastases

## Images

      * ![Liver biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1102t.jpg)Liver biopsy
      * ![Hepatocellular cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1167t.jpg)Hepatocellular cancer - CT scan
      * ![Liver metastases, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1180t.jpg)Liver metastases, CT scan
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): hepatobiliary cancers. Version
1.2018. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/hepatobiliary.pdf.
Updated February 14, 2018. Accessed: March 22, 2018.

Sherman KL, Mahvi DM. Liver metastases. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Liver Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverCancer_thumb.jpg)Liver
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

