Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000280.htm    
                                Description: Hepatocellular carcinoma is cancer that starts inÂ the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liver cancer - hepatocellular carcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000280.htm

# Liver cancer - hepatocellular carcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatocellular carcinoma is cancer that starts inÂ the liver.

## Causes

Hepatocellular carcinoma accounts for most liver cancers. This type of cancer
occurs more often in men than women. It is usually diagnosed in people age 50
or older.

Hepatocellular carcinoma is not the same as metastatic liver cancer, which
starts in another organ (such as the breast or colon) and spreads to the
liver.

In most cases, the cause of liver cancer is long-term damage and scarring of
the liver (cirrhosis). Cirrhosis may be caused by:

      * Alcohol abuse
      * Autoimmune diseases of the liver
      * Hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus infection
      * Inflammation of the liver that is long-term (chronic)
      * Iron overload in the body (hemochromatosis) 

People with hepatitis B or C are at high risk of liver cancer, even if they do
not develop cirrhosis.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of liver cancer may include any of the following:

      * Abdominal pain or tenderness, especially in the upper-right part
      * Easy bruising or bleeding
      * Enlarged abdomen (ascites)
      * Yellow skin or eyes (jaundice)
      * Unexplained weight loss

## Exams and Tests

TheÂ health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. The physical exam may show an enlarged, tender liver or other signs
of cirrhosis.

If the provider suspects liver cancer, tests that may be ordered include:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Abdominal MRI scan
      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * Liver biopsy
      * Liver function tests
      * Serum alpha fetoprotein

Some people who have a high chance of developing liver cancer may get regular
blood tests and ultrasounds to see whether tumors are developing.

To accurately diagnose hepatocellular carcinoma, a biopsy of the tumor must be
done.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how advanced the cancer is.

Surgery may be done if the tumor has not spread. Before surgery, the tumor may
be treated with chemotherapy to reduce its size. This is done by delivering
the medicine straight into the liver with a tube (catheter) or by giving it
intravenously (by IV).

Radiation treatments in the area of the cancer may also be helpful.

Ablation is another method that may be used. Ablate means to destroy. Types of
ablation include using:

      * Radio waves or microwaves
      * Ethanol (an alcohol) or acetic acid (vinegar)
      * Extreme cold (cryoablation) 

A liver transplant may be recommended.

If the cancer can't be surgically removed or has spread outside the liver,
there is usually no chance for long-term cure. Treatment instead focuses on
improving and extending the person's life. Treatment in this case may use
targeted therapy with drugs that can be taken as pills. Newer immunotherapy
drugs may also be used.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cancer can't be completelyÂ treated, the disease is usually fatal. But
survival can vary, depending on how advanced the cancer is when diagnosed and
how successful treatment is.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you developÂ ongoing abdominal pain, especially if you
have a history ofÂ liver disease.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

      * Preventing and treating viral hepatitis may help reduce your risk. Childhood vaccination against hepatitis B may reduce the risk of liver cancer in the future.
      * Do not drink excessive amounts of alcohol.
      * People with certain types of hemochromatosis (iron overload) may need to be screened for liver cancer.
      * People who have hepatitis B or C or cirrhosis may be recommended for liver cancer screening.

## Alternative Names

Primary liver cell carcinoma; Tumor - liver; Cancer - liver; Hepatoma

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Liver biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1102t.jpg)Liver biopsy
      * ![Hepatocellular cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1167t.jpg)Hepatocellular cancer - CT scan

## References

Abou-Alfa GK, Jarnagin W, Dika IE, et al. Liver and bile duct cancer. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
77.

Di Bisceglie AM, Befeler AS. Hepatic tumors and cysts. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 96.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult primary liver cancer treatment (PDQ)
- health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/liver/hp/adult-liver-
treatment-pdq. Updated March 24, 2019. Accessed August 27, 2019.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: hepatobiliary cancers. Version 3.2019.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/hepatobiliary.pdf. Updated August
1, 2019. Accessed August 27, 2019.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverCancer_thumb.jpg)Liver
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

