Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000828.htm    
                                Description: You are having immunotherapy to try to kill cancer cells. You may receive immunotherapy alone or along with other treatments at the same time. Your health care provider may need to follow you closely while    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunotherapy: questions to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000828.htm

# Immunotherapy: questions to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are having immunotherapy to try to kill cancer cells. You may receive
immunotherapy alone or along with other treatments at the same time. Your
health care provider may need to follow you closely while you are having
immunotherapy. You will also need to learn how to best care for yourself
during this time.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor.

## Questions

Is cancer immunotherapy the same as chemotherapy?

Do I need someone to bring me in and pick me up after the treatment?

What are the known side effects? How soon after my treatment will I experience
the side effects?

Am I at risk for infections?

      * What foods should I not eat so that I do not get an infection?
      * Is my water at home OK to drink? Are there places I should not drink the water?
      * Can I go swimming?
      * What should I do when I go to a restaurant?
      * Can I be around pets?
      * What immunizations do I need? Which immunizations should I stay away from?
      * Is it OK to be in a crowd of people? Do I have to wear a mask?
      * Can I have visitors over? Do they need to wear a mask?
      * When should I wash my hands?
      * When should I take my temperature at home?

Am I at risk for bleeding?

      * Is it OK to shave?
      * What should I do if I cut myself or start bleeding?

Are there any medicines I should not take?

      * Are there any other medicines I should keep on hand?
      * What over-the-counter medicines am I allowed to take?
      * Are there any vitamins and supplements I should or should not take?

Do I need to use birth control? What should I do if I want to get pregnant in
the future?

Will I be sick to my stomach or have loose stools or diarrhea?

      * How long after I start targeted treatment might these problems start?
      * What can I do if I am sick to my stomach or have diarrhea?
      * What should I be eating to keep my weight and strength up?
      * Are there any foods I should avoid?
      * Am I allowed to drink alcohol?

Will my hair fall out? Is there anything I can do about it?

Will I have problems thinking or remembering things? Can I do anything that
might help?

What should I do if I get a rash?

      * Do I need to use a special kind of soap?
      * Are there creams or lotions that can help?

If my skin or eyes are itchy, what can I use to treat this?

What should I do if my nails start to break?

How should I take care of my mouth and lips?

      * How can I prevent mouth sores?
      * How often should I brush my teeth? What type of toothpaste should I use?
      * What can I do about dry mouth?
      * What should I do if I have a mouth sore?

Is it OK to be out in the sun?

      * Do I need to use sunscreen?
      * Do I need to stay indoors during cold weather?

What can I do about my fatigue?

When should I call the doctor?

## Alternative Names

Cancer - immunotherapy; Tumor - immunotherapy

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Immunotherapy to treat cancer.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/immunotherapy. Updated May 24,
2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Pardoll D. Cancer immunology. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH,
Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 6.

Sharma A, Campbell M, Yee C, Goswami S, Sharma P. Immunotherapy of cancer. In:
Rich RR, Fleisher TA, Shearer WT, et al, eds. _Clinical Immunology: Principles
and Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 77.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer Immunotherapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

