Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000903.htm    
                                Description: Immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that relies on the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunotherapy for cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000903.htm

# Immunotherapy for cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that relies on the body's
infection-fighting system (immune system). It uses substances made by the body
or in a lab to help the immune system work harder or in a more targeted way to
fight cancer. This helps your body get rid of cancer cells.

Immunotherapy works by:

      * Stopping or slowing the growth of cancer cells
      * Preventing cancer from spreading to other parts of the body
      * Boosting the immune system's ability to get rid of cancer cells 

There are several types of immunotherapy for cancer.

## Monoclonal Antibodies

The immune system protects the body from infection. It does this by detecting
germs such as bacteria or viruses and making proteins that fight infection.
These proteins are called antibodies.

Scientists can make special antibodies in a lab that seek out cancer cells
instead of bacteria. Called monoclonal antibodies, they are also a type of
targeted therapy.

Some monoclonal antibodies work by sticking to cancer cells. This makes it
easier for other cells made by the immune system to find, attack, and kill the
cells.

Other monoclonal antibodies work by blocking signals on the surface of the
cancer cell that tell it to divide.

Another type of monoclonal antibody carries radiation or a chemotherapy drug
to cancer cells. These cancer-killing substances are attached to the
monoclonal antibodies, which then deliver the toxins to the cancer cells.

Monoclonal antibodies treat several different types of cancer:

      * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
      * Hodgkin lymphoma
      * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia
      * Anaplastic large cell lymphoma
      * Advanced melanoma
      * Stomach cancer
      * Breast cancer
      * Advanced colon or rectal cancer
      * Kidney cancer
      * Certain types of brain cancer
      * Cancers of the head and neck 

## Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors

"Checkpoints" are specific molecules on certain immune cells that the immune
system either turns on or turns off to create an immune response. Cancer cells
can use these checkpoints to avoid being attacked by the immune system.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a newer type of monoclonal antibody that act
on these checkpoints to boost the immune system so it can attack cancer cells.

**PD-1 inhibitors** are used to treat:

      * Melanoma of the skin
      * Non-small cell lung cancer
      * Kidney cancer
      * Hodgkin lymphoma
      * Stomach cancer
      * Liver cancer
      * Head and neck cancerÂ 

**PD-L1 inhibitors** treat bladder cancer, lungÂ cancer, and Merkel cell
carcinoma, and are being tested against other types of cancer.

Drugs that target **CTLA-4** treat melanoma of the skin.

## Non-specific Immunotherapies

These therapies boost the immune system in more general way than monoclonal
antibodies. There are two main types:

**Interleukin-2 (IL-2)** helps immune cells grow and divide more quickly. A
lab-made version of IL-2 is used for advanced forms of kidney cancer and
melanoma.

**Interferon alpha (INF-alfa)** makes certain immune cells better able to
attack cancer cells. It is rarely used to treat:

      * Hairy cell leukemia
      * Chronic myelogenous leukemia
      * Follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma
      * Cutaneous (skin) T-cell lymphoma
      * Kidney cancer
      * Melanoma
      * Kaposi sarcoma 

## Vaccine-Based Immuno therapy

This type of therapy uses viruses that have been altered in a lab to infect
and kill cancer cells. When these cells die, they release substances called
antigens. These antigens tell the immune system to target and kill other
cancer cells in the body.

This type of immunotherapy is still in the very early stages of development.

Currently this type of therapy is used to treat advanced prostate cancer. It
is being tested on other types of cancer.

## Side Effects of Immunotherapy

The side effects for different types of immunotherapy for cancer differ by the
type of treatment. Some side effects occur where the injection or IV enters
the body, causing the area to be:

      * Sore or painful
      * Swollen
      * Red
      * Itchy 

Other possible side effects include:

      * Flu-like symptoms (fever, chills, weakness, headache)
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Diarrhea
      * Muscle or joint aches
      * Feeling very tired
      * Headache
      * Low or high blood pressure
      * Inflammation of the liver, lungs, endocrine organs, gastrointestinal tract, or skin 

These therapies can also cause a severe, sometimes fatal, allergic reaction in
people sensitive to certain ingredients in the treatment. However, this is
very rare.

## Alternative Names

Biological therapy; Biotherapy

## References

Cancer.Net website. Understanding immunotherapy. www.cancer.net/navigating-
cancer-care/how-cancer-treated/immunotherapy-and-vaccines/understanding-
immunotherapy. Updated April 2017. February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. CAR T cells: engineering patients' immune
cells to treat their cancers. www.cancer.gov/about-
cancer/treatment/research/car-t-cells. Updated December 14, 2017. Accessed
February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Immunotherapy to treat cancer.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/immunotherapy. Updated May 4,
2017. Accessed February 15, 2018.

Pardoll D. Cancer immunology. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH,
Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 6.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer Immunotherapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

