Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001663.htm    
                                Description: Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a cancer of the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands are two triangle-shaped glands. One gland is located on top of each kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adrenocortical carcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001663.htm

# Adrenocortical carcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a cancer of the adrenal glands. The adrenal
glands are two triangle-shaped glands. One gland is located on top of each
kidney.

## Causes

ACC is most common in children younger than 5 years oldÂ and adults in their
40s and 50s.

The condition may be linked to a cancer syndrome that is passed down through
families (inherited). Both men and women can develop this tumor.

ACC can produce the hormones cortisol, aldosterone, estrogen, or testosterone,
as well as other hormones. In women the tumor often releases these hormones,
which can lead to male characteristics.

ACC is very rare. The cause is unknown.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of increased cortisol or other adrenal gland hormones may include:

      * Fatty, rounded hump high on the back just below the neck (buffalo hump)
      * Flushed, rounded face with pudgy cheeks (moon face)
      * Obesity
      * Stunted growth (short stature)
      * Virilization \-- the appearance of male characteristics, including increased body hair (especially on the face), pubic hair, acne, deepening of the voice, and enlarged clitoris (females) 

Symptoms of increased aldosterone are the same as symptoms of low potassium,
and include:

      * Muscle cramps
      * Weakness
      * Pain in the abdomen

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Blood tests will be done to check hormone levels:

      * ACTH level will be low.
      * Aldosterone level will be high.
      * Cortisol level will be high.
      * Potassium level will be low.
      * Male or female hormones may be abnormally high. 

Imaging tests of the abdomen may include:

      * Ultrasound
      * CT scan
      * MRI
      * PET scan 

## Treatment

Primary treatment is surgery to remove the tumor. ACC may not improve with
chemotherapy. Medicines may be given to reduce production of cortisol, which
causes many of the symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on how early the diagnosis is made and whether the tumor
has spread (metastasized). Tumors that have spread usually lead to death
within 1 to 3 years.

## Possible Complications

The tumor can spread to the liver, bone, lung, or other areas.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has symptoms of ACC,Â Cushing
syndrome, or failure to grow.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - adrenal; ACC - adrenal

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Adrenal metastases - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1146t.jpg)Adrenal metastases - CT scan
      * ![Adrenal Tumor - CT](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1147t.jpg)Adrenal Tumor - CT

## References

Allolio B, Fassnacht M. Adrenocortical carcinoma. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 107.

National Cancer Institute website. Adrenocortical carcinoma treatment (Adult)
(PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/adrenocortical/hp/adrenocortical-treatment-pdq. Updated
November 13, 2019. Accessed November 18, 2019.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 11-18-19:
Editorial update.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

