Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007437.htm    
                                Description: Adrenal gland removal is an operation in which one or both adrenal glands are removed. The adrenal glands are part of the endocrine system and are located just above the kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adrenal gland removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007437.htm

# Adrenal gland removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adrenal gland removal is an operation in which one or both adrenal glands are
removed. The adrenal glands are part of the endocrine system and are located
just above the kidneys.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia that allows you to be asleep and pain free
during surgery.

Adrenal gland removal can be performed in two ways. The type of surgery you
have depends on the problem being treated.

      * With open surgery, the surgeon makes one large surgical cut (incision) to remove the gland.
      * With the laparoscopic technique, several small cuts are made.

The surgeon will discuss which approach is better for you.

After the adrenal gland is removed, it is sent to a pathologist for
examination under a microscope.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The adrenal gland is removed when there is known cancer or a growth (mass)
that might be cancer.

Sometimes, a mass in the adrenal gland is removed because it releases a
hormone that can cause harmful side effects.

      * One of the most common tumors is a pheochromocytoma, which can cause very high blood pressure
      * Other disorders include Cushing syndrome, Conn syndrome, and an adrenal mass of unknown cause 

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

      * Reaction to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection

Risks for this surgery include:

      * Damage to nearby organs in the body
      * Wound that breaks open or bulging tissue through the incision (incisional hernia) 
      * Acute adrenal crisis in which there is not enough cortisol, a hormone produced by the adrenal glands

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

      * If you are or could be pregnant
      * What medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription

During the days before surgery:

      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), and others.
      * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery. 

If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking slows recovery and increases the risk for
problems. Ask your health care provider for help quitting.

On the day of surgery:

      * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
      * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

While in the hospital, you may:

      * Be asked to sit on the side of the bed and walk on the same day of your surgery
      * Have a tube, or catheter, that comes from your bladder
      * Have a drain that comes out through your surgical cut
      * Not be able to eat the first 1 to 3 days, and then you will begin with liquids
      * Be encouraged to do breathing exercises
      * Wear special stockings to prevent blood clots
      * Receive shots under your skin to prevent blood clots
      * Receive pain medicine
      * Have your blood pressure monitored and continue to receive blood pressure medicine

You will be discharged in 1 or 2 days after the surgery.

At home:

      * Follow instructions on how to care for yourself as you recover.
      * You can remove the dressing and shower the day after the surgery, unless your surgeon tells you otherwise.
      * You may have some pain and may need to take medicine for pain.
      * You can start doing some light activities.

Recovering from open surgery may be painful because of where the surgical cut
is located. Recovery after a laparoscopic procedure is most often quicker.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who undergo the laparoscopic surgery mostly have faster recovery than
with open surgery. How well you do after surgery depends on the reason for the
surgery:

      * If you had surgery for Conn syndrome, you may have to stay on blood pressure medicines.
      * If you had surgery for Cushing syndrome, you are at risk for complications that will need to be treated. Your provider can tell you more about this.
      * If you had surgery for pheochromocytoma, the outcome is usually good.

## Alternative Names

Adrenalectomy; Removal of adrenal glands

## References

Lim SK, Rha KH. Surgery of the adrenal glands. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 66.

Smith PW, Hanks JB. Adrenal surgery. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser
DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 111.

Yeh MW, Livhits MJ, Duh QY. The adrenal glands. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Cancer _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Pheochromocytoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pheochromocytoma_thumb.jpg)Pheochromocytoma
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

