Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000592.htm    
                                Description: Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is an unusual cancer of the blood. It affects B cells, a type of white blood cell (lymphocyte).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hairy cell leukemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000592.htm

# Hairy cell leukemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is an unusual cancer of the blood. It affects B
cells, a type of white blood cell (lymphocyte).

## Causes

HCL is caused by the abnormal growth of B cells. The cells look "hairy" under
the microscope because they have fine projections extending from their
surface.

HCL usually leads to a low number of normal blood cells.

The cause of this disease is unknown. Certain genetic changes (mutations) in
the cancer cells may be the cause. It affects men more often than women. The
average age of diagnosis is 55.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of HCL may include any of the following:

      * Easy bruising or bleeding
      * Heavy sweating (especially at night)
      * Fatigue and weakness 
      * Feeling full after eating only a small amount
      * Recurrent infections and fevers
      * Pain or fullness in the upper left belly (enlarged spleen)
      * Swollen lymph glands
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider may be able to feel a swollen
spleen or liver. An abdominal CT scan or ultrasound may be done to evaluate
this swelling.

Blood tests that may be done include:

      * Complete blood countÂ (CBC) to checkÂ low levels of white and red blood cells, as well as platelets.
      * Blood tests and a bone marrow biopsyÂ to check forÂ hairy cells.

## Treatment

Treatment may not be needed for the early stages of this disease. Some people
may need an occasional blood transfusion.

If treatment is needed because of very low blood counts, chemotherapy drugs
can be used.

In most cases, chemotherapy can relieve the symptoms for many years. When the
signs and symptoms go away, you are said to be in remission.

Removing the spleen may improve blood counts, but is unlikely to cure the
disease. Antibiotics can be used to treat infections. People with low blood
counts may receive growth factors and, possibly, transfusions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with HCL can expect to live 10 years or longer after diagnosis and
treatment.

## Possible Complications

The low blood counts caused by hairy cell leukemia can lead to:

      * Infections
      * Fatigue
      * Excessive bleeding

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have major bleeding. Also call if you have signs of
infection, such as a persistent fever, cough, or general ill feeling.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disease.

## Alternative Names

Leukemic reticuloendotheliosis; HCL; Leukemia - hairy cell

## Images

      * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
      * ![Hairy cell leukemia - microscopic view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1453t.jpg)Hairy cell leukemia - microscopic view
      * ![Enlarged spleen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9943t.jpg)Enlarged spleen

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Hairy cell leukemia treatment (PDQ) â
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/hairy-cell-
treatment-pdq. Updated March 23, 2018. Accessed June 12, 2018.

Ravandi F. Hairy cell leukemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al,
eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Leukemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

