

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Gonorrhea

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Gonorrhea - CDC Fact Sheet (Detailed Version)

Minus

Related Pages

Basic Fact Sheet | **Detailed Version**

Detailed fact sheets are intended for individuals with specific questions
about sexually transmitted diseases. Detailed fact sheets include specific
testing and treatment recommendations as well as citations so the reader can
research the topic more in depth.

### What is gonorrhea?

Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by infection with the
_Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ bacterium. _N. gonorrhoeae_ infects the mucous
membranes of the reproductive tract, including the cervix, uterus, and
fallopian tubes in women, and the urethra in women and men. _N. gonorrhoeae_
can also infect the mucous membranes of the mouth, throat, eyes, and rectum.

### How common is gonorrhea?

Gonorrhea is a very common infectious disease. CDC estimates that
approximately 1.14 million new gonococcal infections occur in the United
States each year, and as many as half occur among young people aged 15-24.1 In
2018, 583,405 cases of gonorrhea were reported to CDC.2

### How do people get gonorrhea?

Gonorrhea is transmitted through sexual contact with the penis, vagina, mouth,
or anus of an infected partner. Ejaculation does not have to occur for
gonorrhea to be transmitted or acquired. Gonorrhea can also be spread
perinatally from mother to baby during childbirth.

People who have had gonorrhea and received treatment may be reinfected if they
have sexual contact with a person infected with gonorrhea.

### Who is at risk for gonorrhea?

Any sexually active person can be infected with gonorrhea. In the United
States, the highest reported rates of infection are among sexually active
teenagers, young adults, and African Americans 2.

### What are the signs and symptoms of gonorrhea?

Many men with gonorrhea are asymptomatic 3, 4. When present, signs and
symptoms of urethral infection in men include dysuria or a white, yellow, or
green urethral discharge that usually appears one to fourteen days after
infection 5. In cases where urethral infection is complicated by epididymitis,
men with gonorrhea may also complain of testicular or scrotal pain.

Most women with gonorrhea are asymptomatic 6, 7. Even when a woman has
symptoms, they are often so mild and nonspecific that they are mistaken for a
bladder or vaginal infection 8, 9. The initial symptoms and signs in women
include dysuria, increased vaginal discharge, or vaginal bleeding between
periods. Women with gonorrhea are at risk of developing serious complications
from the infection, regardless of the presence or severity of symptoms.

Symptoms of rectal infection in both men and women may include discharge, anal
itching, soreness, bleeding, or painful bowel movements 10. Rectal infection
also may be asymptomatic. Pharyngeal infection may cause a sore throat, but
usually is asymptomatic 11, 12.

### What are the complications of gonorrhea?

Untreated gonorrhea can cause serious and permanent health problems in both
women and men.

In women, gonorrhea can spread into the uterus or fallopian tubes and cause
pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). The symptoms may be quite mild or can be
very severe and can include abdominal pain and fever 13. PID can lead to
internal abscesses and chronic pelvic pain. PID can also damage the fallopian
tubes enough to cause infertility or increase the risk of ectopic pregnancy.

In men, gonorrhea may be complicated by epididymitis. In rare cases, this may
lead to infertility 14.

If left untreated, gonorrhea can also spread to the blood and cause
disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI). DGI is usually characterized by
arthritis, tenosynovitis, and/or dermatitis 15. This condition can be life
threatening.

### What about gonorrhea and HIV?

Untreated gonorrhea can increase a person's risk of acquiring or transmitting
HIV, the virus that causes AIDS 16.

### How does gonorrhea affect a pregnant woman and her baby?

If a pregnant woman has gonorrhea, she may give the infection to her baby as
the baby passes through the birth canal during delivery. This can cause
blindness, joint infection, or a life-threatening blood infection in the baby
17. Treatment of gonorrhea as soon as it is detected in pregnant women will
reduce the risk of these complications. Pregnant women should consult a health
care provider for appropriate examination, testing, and treatment, as
necessary.

### Who should be tested for gonorrhea?

Any sexually active person can be infected with gonorrhea. Anyone with genital
symptoms such as discharge, burning during urination, unusual sores, or rash
should stop having sex and see a health care provider immediately.

Also, anyone with an oral, anal, or vaginal sex partner who has been recently
diagnosed with an STD should see a health care provider for evaluation.

Some people should be tested (screened) for gonorrhea even if they do not have
symptoms or know of a sex partner who has gonorrhea 18. Anyone who is sexually
active should discuss his or her risk factors with a health care provider and
ask whether he or she should be tested for gonorrhea or other STDs.

CDC recommends yearly gonorrhea screening for all sexually active women
younger than 25 years, as well as older women with risk factors such as new or
multiple sex partners, or a sex partner who has a sexually transmitted
infection.

People who have gonorrhea should also be tested for other STDs.

### How is gonorrhea diagnosed?

Urogenital gonorrhea can be diagnosed by testing urine, urethral (for men), or
endocervical or vaginal (for women) specimens using nucleic acid amplification
testing (NAAT) 19. It can also be diagnosed using gonorrhea culture, which
requires endocervical or urethral swab specimens.

If a person has had oral and/or anal sex, pharyngeal and/or rectal swab
specimens should be collected either for culture or for NAAT (if the local
laboratory has validated the use of NAAT for extra-genital specimens) 20.

### What is the treatment for gonorrhea?

Gonorrhea can be cured with the right treatment. CDC now recommends dual
therapy (i.e. using two drugs) for the treatment of gonorrhea. It is important
to take all of the medication prescribed to cure gonorrhea. Medication for
gonorrhea should not be shared with anyone. Although medication will stop the
infection, it will not repair any permanent damage done by the disease.
Antimicrobial resistance in gonorrhea is of increasing concern, and successful
treatment of gonorrhea is becoming more difficult 21. If a person's symptoms
continue for more than a few days after receiving treatment, he or she should
return to a health care provider to be reevaluated.

### What about partners?

If a person has been diagnosed and treated for gonorrhea, he or she should
tell all recent anal, vaginal, or oral sex partners (all sex partners within
60 days before the onset of symptoms or diagnosis) so they can see a health
provider and be treated 20. This will reduce the risk that the sex partners
will develop serious complications from gonorrhea and will also reduce the
person's risk of becoming reinfected. A person with gonorrhea and all of his
or her sex partners must avoid having sex until they have completed their
treatment for gonorrhea and until they no longer have symptoms. For tips on
talking to partners about sex and STD testing, visit
http://www.gytnow.org/talking-to-your-partnerexternal icon.

### How can gonorrhea be prevented?

Latex condoms, when used consistently and correctly, can reduce the risk of
transmission of gonorrhea 22. The surest way to avoid transmission of
gonorrhea or other STDs is to abstain from vaginal, anal, and oral sex, or to
be in a long-term mutually monogamous relationship with a partner who has been
tested and is known to be uninfected.

### Where can I get more information?

![National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers, STD Clinical
Consultation Network](/std/images/logos/SCCNbutton.jpg)external icon

Health care providers with STD consultation requests can contact the STD
Clinical Consultation Network (STDCCN). This service is provided by the
National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers and operates five
days a week. STDCCN is convenient, simple, and free to health care providers
and clinicians. More information is available at www.stdccn.orgexternal icon.

Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP)  
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  
www.cdc.gov/std

#### Sources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. CDC. Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the United States, 2019. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2019..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. CDC. Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance, 2018. Atlanta, GA: Department of Health and Human Services; October 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. Handsfield HH, Lipman TO, Harnisch JP, Tronca E, Holmes KK. Asymptomatic gonorrhea in men. _N Engl J Med_ , 290(3), 117-123 (1974).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. Peterman T, Tian L, Metcalf C _et al._ High incidence of new sexually transmitted infections in the year following a sexually transmitted infection: a case for rescreening. _Ann Intern Med_ , 145(8), 564-572 (2006).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5. Harrison WO, Hooper MR, Wiesner PJ _et al._ A trial of minocycline given after exposure to prevent gonorrhea. _N Engl J Med_ , 300(19), 1074-1078 (1979).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6. Wallin J. Gonorrhea in 1972: a 1-year study of patients attending the VD unit in Uppsala. _Brit J Vener Dis_ , 51, 41-47 (1974).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7. Platt R, Rice PA, McCormack WM. Risk of acquiring gonorrhea and prevalence of abnormal adnexal findings among women recently exposed to gonorrhea. _JAMA_ , 250(23), 3205-3209 (1983).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8. McCormack WM, Johnson K, Stumacher RJ, Donner A, Rychwalski R. Clinical spectrum of gonococcal infection in women. _Lancet_ , 1(8023), 1182-1185 (1977).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9. Curran J, Rendtorff R, Chandler R, Wiser W, Robinson H. Female gonorrhea: its relation to abnormal uterine bleeding, urinary tract symptoms, and cervicitis. _Obstet Gynecol_ , 45(2), 195-198 (1975).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10. Klein EJ, Fisher LS, Chow AW, Guze LB. Anorectal gonococcal infection. _Ann Intern Med_ , 86, 340-346 (1977).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11. Wiesner PJ, Tronca E, Bonin P, Pedersen AHB, Holmes KK. Clinical spectrum of pharyngeal gonococcal infection. _N Engl J Med_ , 288(4), 181-185 (1973).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12. Bro-Jorgensen A, Jensen T. Gonococcal pharyngeal infections: report of 110 cases. _Brit J Vener Dis_ , 49, 491-499 (1973).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13. Svensson L, Westrom L, Ripa K, Mardh P. Differences in some clinical and laboratory parameters in acute salpingitis related to culture and serologic findings. _Am J Obstet Gynecol_ , 138(7), 1017-1021 (1980).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14. Berger R, Alexander E, Harnisch J _et al._ Etiology, manifestations and therapy of acute epididymitis: prospective study of 50 cases. _J Urol_ , 121(6), 750-754 (1979).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15. Holmes KK, Counts GW, Beaty HN. Disseminated gonococcal infection. _Ann Intern Med_ , 74, 979-993 (1971).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16. Fleming D, Wasserheit J. From epidemiological synergy to public health policy and practice: the contribution of other sexually transmitted diseases to sexual transmission of HIV infection. _Sex Transm DIs_ , 75(1), 3-17 (1999).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17. Thadepalli H, Rambhatla K, Maidman J, Arce JJ, Davidson EC Jr. Gonococcal sepsis secondary to fetal monitoring. _Am J Obstet Gynecol_ , 126(4), 510-512 (1976).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for gonorrhea: recommendation statement. _Ann Fam Med_ , 3, 263-267 (2005).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19. Van Der Pol B, Ferrero DV, Buck-Barrington L _et al._ Multicenter evaluation of the BDProbeTec ET system for detection of _Chlamydia trachomatis_ and _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ in urine specimens, female endocervical swabs, and male uerthral swabs. _J Clin Microbiol_ , 39(3), 1008-1016 (2001).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines, 2015. _MMWR_ , 64(RR-3) (2015).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cephalosporin susceptibility among _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ isolates - United States, 2000-2010. _MMWR_ , 60(26), 873-877 (2011).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22. Holmes KK, Levine R, Weaver M. Effectiveness of condoms in preventing sexually transmitted infections. _Bull World Health Organ_ , 82(6), 454-461 (2004).

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Gonorrhea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antibiotic Resistance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Basic Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Combating the Threat expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CARB Sites Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Archive

#### Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * GISP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gonorrhea Laboratory Information

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reproductive Health

**Find an STD testing site near you.**

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

