Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000893.htm    
                                Description: Cervical cancer is cancer that starts in the cervix. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervical cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000893.htm

# Cervical cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervical cancer is cancer that starts in the cervix. The cervix is the lower
part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.

![Cervical cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19262.jpg)

## Causes

Worldwide, cervical cancer is the third most common type of cancer in women.
It is much less common in the United States because of the routine use of Pap
smears.

![Pap smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17116.jpg)

Cervical cancer starts in the cells on the surface of the cervix. There are
two types of cells on the surface of the cervix, squamous and columnar. Most
cervical cancers are from squamous cells.

Cervical cancer usually develops slowly. It starts as a precancerous condition
called dysplasia. This condition can be detected by a Pap smear and is nearly
100% treatable. It can take years for dysplasia to develop into cervical
cancer. Most women who are diagnosed with cervical cancer today have not had
regular Pap smears, or they have not followed up on abnormal Pap smear
results.

Almost all cervical cancers are caused by human papillomavirus (HPV). HPV is a
common virus that is spread through skin-to-skin contact and also by sexual
intercourse. There are many different types (strains) of HPV. Some strains
lead to cervical cancer. Other strains can cause genital warts. Others do not
cause any problems at all.

A woman's sexual habits and patterns can increase her risk of developing
cervical cancer. Risky sexual practices include:

      * Having sex at an early age
      * Having multiple sexual partners
      * Having a partner or many partners who take part in high-risk sexual activities 

Other risk factors for cervical cancer include:

      * Not getting the HPV vaccine
      * Being economically disadvantaged
      * Having a mother who took the drug diethylstilbestrol (DES) during pregnancy in the early 1960s to prevent miscarriage
      * Having a weakened immune system 

## Symptoms

Most of the time, early cervical cancer has no symptoms. Symptoms that may
occur include:

      * Abnormal vaginal bleeding between periods, after intercourse, or after menopause
      * Vaginal discharge that does not stop, and may be pale, watery, pink, brown, bloody, or foul-smelling
      * Periods that become heavier and last longer than usual 

Cervical cancer may spread to the vagina, lymph nodes, bladder, intestines,
lungs, bones, and liver. Often, there are no problems until the cancer is
advanced and has spread. Symptoms of advanced cervical cancer may include:

      * Back pain
      * Bone pain or fractures
      * Fatigue
      * Leaking of urine or feces from the vagina
      * Leg pain
      * Loss of appetite
      * Pelvic pain
      * Single swollen leg
      * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

Precancerous changes of the cervix and cervical cancer cannot be seen with the
naked eye. Special tests and tools are needed to spot such conditions:

      * A Pap smear screens for precancers and cancer, but does not make a final diagnosis.
      * Depending on your age, the human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA test may be done along with a Pap test. Or it may be used after a woman has had an abnormal Pap test result. It may also be used as the first test. Talk to your health care provider about which test or tests are right for you.
      * If abnormal changes are found, the cervix is usually examined under magnification. This procedure is called colposcopy. Pieces of tissue might be removed (biopsied) during this procedure. This tissue is then sent to a lab for examination.
      * A procedure called a cone biopsy may also be done. This is a procedure that removes a cone-shaped wedge from the front of the cervix.Â 
![Cervical
biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17032.jpg)![Cold cone
biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17040.jpg)

If cervical cancer is diagnosed, the provider will order more tests. These
help determine how far the cancer has spread. This is called staging. Tests
may include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the pelvis
      * Cystoscopy
      * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
      * MRI of the pelvis
      * PET scan

## Treatment

Treatment of cervical cancer depends on:

      * The stage of the cancer
      * The size and shape of the tumor
      * The woman's age and general health
      * Her desire to have children in the future

Early cervical cancer can be cured by removing or destroying the precancerous
or cancerous tissue. This is why routine Pap smears are so important to
prevent cervical cancer, or catch it at an early stage. There are surgical
ways to do this without removing the uterus or damaging the cervix, so that a
woman can still have children in the future.

Types of surgery for cervical precancer, and on occasion, very small early
cervical cancer include:

      * Loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) -- uses electricity to remove abnormal tissue.
      * Cryotherapy -- freezes abnormal cells.
      * Laser therapy -- uses light to burn abnormal tissue.
      * Hysterectomy may be required for women with precancer who have undergone multiple LEEP procedures.  

Treatment for more advanced cervical cancer may include:

      * Radical hysterectomy, which removes the uterus and much of the surrounding tissues, including lymph nodes and the upper part of the vagina. This is more often performed on younger, healthier women with small tumors.
      * Radiation therapy, along with low dose chemotherapy, is more often used for women with tumors too large for radical hysterectomy or women who are not good candidates for surgery.Â   

      * Pelvic exenteration, an extreme type of surgery in which all of the organs of the pelvis, including the bladder and rectum, are removed.

Radiation may also be used to treat cancer that has returned.

Chemotherapy uses drugs to kill cancer. It may be given alone or with surgery
or radiation.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the person does depends on many things, including:

      * Type of cervical cancer
      * Stage of cancer (how far it has spread)
      * Age and general health
      * If the cancer comes back after treatment 

Precancerous conditions can be completely cured when followed up and treated
properly. Most women are alive in 5 years (5-year survival rate) for cancer
that has spread to the inside of the cervix walls but not outside the cervix
area. The 5-year survival rate falls as the cancer spreads outside the walls
of the cervix into other areas.

## Possible Complications

Complications can include:

      * Risk of the cancer coming back in women who have treatment to save the uterus
      * Problems with sexual, bowel, and bladder function after surgery or radiation 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

      * Have not had regular Pap smears
      * Have abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge 

## Prevention

Cervical cancer can be prevented by doing the following:

      * Get the HPV vaccine. The vaccine prevents most types of HPV infection that cause cervical cancer. Your provider can tell you if the vaccine is right for you.
      * Practice safer sex. Using condoms during sex reduces the risk for HPV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
      * Limit the number of sexual partners you have. Avoid partners who are active in high-risk sexual behaviors.
      * Get Pap smears as often as your provider recommends. Pap smears can help detect early changes, which can be treated before they turn into cervical cancer.
      * Get the HPV test if recommended by your provider. It can be used along with the Pap test to screen for cervical cancer in women 30 years and older.
      * If you smoke, quit. Smoking increases your chance of getting cervical cancer. 

## Alternative Names

Cancer - cervix; Cervical cancer - HPV; Cervical cancer - dysplasia

## Patient Instructions

      * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge 
      * Pelvic radiation - discharge

## Images

      * ![Cervical cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19262t.jpg)Cervical cancer
      * ![Cervical neoplasia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17034t.jpg)Cervical neoplasia
      * ![Pap smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17116t.jpg)Pap smear
      * ![Cervical biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17032t.jpg)Cervical biopsy
      * ![Cold cone biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17040t.jpg)Cold cone biopsy
      * ![Cervical cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9163t.jpg)Cervical cancer
      * ![Pap smears and cervical cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9440t.jpg)Pap smears and cervical cancer

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Committee on Adolescent
Health Care, Immunization Expert Work Group. _Committee Opinion Number 704,
June 2017_. www.acog.org/Resources-And-Publications/Committee-
Opinions/Committee-on-Adolescent-Health-Care/Human-Papillomavirus-Vaccination.
Accessed January 23, 2020.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Human papillomavirus
(HPV). Clinician factsheets and guidance. www.cdc.gov/hpv/hcp/schedules-
recommendations.html. Updated August 15, 2019. Accessed January 23, 2020.

Hacker NF. Cervical dysplasia and cancer. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker and Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

Salcedo MP, Baker ES, Schmeler KM. Intraepithelial neoplasia of the lower
genital tract (cervix, vagina, vulva): etiology, screening, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Cervical cancer: screening.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/UpdateSummaryFinal/cervical-
cancer-screening2. Released August 2018. Accessed January 23, 2020.

## Review Date 1/21/2020

Updated by: Howard Goodman, MD, Gynecologic Oncology, Florida Cancer
Specialists & Research Institute, West Palm Beach, FL. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervical
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancer2_thumb.jpg)Cervical
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

