Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003612.htm    
                                Description: 5-HIAA is a urine test that measures the amount of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). 5-HIAA is a breakdown product of a hormone called serotonin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

5-HIAA urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003612.htm

# 5-HIAA urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

5-HIAA is a urine test that measures the amount of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid
(5-HIAA). 5-HIAA is a breakdown product of a hormone called serotonin.

This test tells how much 5-HIAA the body is producing. It is also a way to
measure how much serotonin is in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed. You'll need to collect your urine over 24
hours in a container provided by the laboratory. Your health care provider
will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will instruct you, if necessary, to stop taking medicines that
may interfere with the test.

Medicines that can increase 5-HIAA measurements include acetaminophen
(Tylenol), acetanilide, phenacetin, glyceryl guaiacolate (found in many cough
syrups), methocarbamol, and reserpine.

Medicines that can decrease 5-HIAA measurements include heparin, isoniazid,
levodopa, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, methenamine, methyldopa,
phenothiazines, and tricyclic antidepressants.

You will be told not to eat certain foods for 3 days before the test. Foods
that can interfere with 5-HIAA measurements include plums, pineapples,
bananas, eggplant, tomatoes, avocados, and walnuts.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test measures the level of 5-HIAA in the urine. It is often done to
detect certain tumors in the digestive tract (carcinoid tumors) and to track a
person's condition.

The urine test may also be used to diagnose a disorder called systemic
mastocytosis and some tumors of the hormone.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 2 to 9 mg/24h (10.4 to 46.8 Âµmol/24h).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Tumors of the endocrine system or carcinoid tumors
      * Increased immune cells called mast cells in several organs (systemic mastocytosis)

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

HIAA; 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid; Serotonin metabolite

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. H. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:660-661.

Hande KR. Neuroendocrine tumors and the carcinoid syndrome. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 232.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carcinoid
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarcinoidTumors_thumb.jpg)Carcinoid
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

