Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000347.htm    
                                Description: Carcinoid syndrome is a group of symptoms associated with carcinoid tumors. These are tumors of the small intestine, colon, appendix, and bronchial tubes in the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carcinoid syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000347.htm

# Carcinoid syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carcinoid syndrome is a group of symptoms associated with carcinoid tumors.
These are tumors of the small intestine, colon, appendix, and bronchial tubes
in the lungs.

## Causes

Carcinoid syndrome is the pattern of symptoms sometimes seen in people with
carcinoid tumors. These tumors are rare, and often slow growing. Most
carcinoid tumors are found in the gastrointestinal tract and lungs.

Carcinoid syndrome occurs in very few people with carcinoid tumors, after the
tumor has spread to the liver or lung.

These tumors release too much of the hormoneÂ serotonin, as well as several
other chemicals. The hormones cause the blood vessels to open (dilate). This
causes carcinoid syndrome.

## Symptoms

The carcinoid syndrome is made up of four main symptoms including:

      * Flushing (face, neck, or upper chest), such as widened blood vessels seen on the skin (telangiectasias)
      * Difficulty breathing, such as wheezing
      * Diarrhea
      * Heart problems, such as leaking heart valves, slow heartbeat, low or high blood pressure 

Symptoms are sometimes brought on by physical exertion, or eating or drinking
things such as blue cheese, chocolate, or red wine.

## Exams and Tests

Most of these tumors are found when tests or procedures are done for other
reasons, such as during abdominal surgery.

If a physical exam is done, the health care provider may find signs of:Â

      * Heart valve problems, such as murmur
      * Niacin-deficiency disease (pellagra)

Tests that may be done include:

      * 5-HIAA levels in urine
      * Blood tests (including serotoninÂ and chromogranin blood test)
      * CT and MRI scan of the chest or abdomen
      * Echocardiogram
      * Octreotide radiolabeled scan

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the tumor is usually the first treatment. It can permanently
cure the condition if the tumor is completely removed.

If the tumor has spread to the liver, treatment involves either of the
following:

      * Removing areas of liver that have tumor cells
      * Sending (infusing) medicine directly into the liver to destroy the tumors

When the entire tumor can't be removed, removing large portions of the tumor
("debulking") can help relieve the symptoms.

Octreotide (Sandostatin) or lanreotide (Somatuline) injections are given to
people with advanced carcinoid tumors that can't be removed with surgery.

People with carcinoid syndrome should avoid alcohol, large meals, and foods
high in tyramine (aged cheeses, avocado, many processed foods), because they
may trigger symptoms.

Some common medicines, like selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs),
such as paroxetine (Paxil) and fluoxetine (Prozac), may make symptoms worse by
increasing levels of serotonin. However, DO NOT stop taking these medicines
unless your provider tells you to do so.

## Support Groups

Learn more about carcinoid syndrome and get support from:

      * The Carcinoid Cancer Foundation -- www.carcinoid.org
      * Neuroendocrine Tumor Research Foundation -- netrf.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook in people with carcinoid syndrome is sometimes different from the
outlook in people who have carcinoid tumors without the syndrome.

Prognosis also depends on the site of tumor. In people with the syndrome, the
tumor has usually spread to the liver. This lowers the survival rate. People
with carcinoid syndrome are also more likely to have a separate cancer (second
primary tumor) at the same time. Overall, the prognosis is usually excellent.

## Possible Complications

Complications of carcinoid syndrome may include:

      * Increased risk of falls and injury (from low blood pressure)
      * Bowel obstruction (from tumor)
      * Gastrointestinal bleeding
      * Heart valve failure

A fatal form of carcinoid syndrome, carcinoid crisis, may occur as a side
effect of surgery, anesthesia or chemotherapy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of carcinoid
syndrome.

## Prevention

Treating the tumor reduces the risk of carcinoid syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Flush syndrome; Argentaffinoma syndrome

## Images

      * ![Serotonin uptake](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9877t.jpg)Serotonin uptake

## References

Hande KR. Neuroendocrine tumors and the carcinoid syndrome. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 232.

National Cancer Institute website. Gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors treatment
(Adult) (PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/gi-
carcinoid-tumors/hp/gi-carcinoid-treatment-pdq. Updated November 12, 2019.
AccessedÂ November 18, 2019.

Ãberg K. Neuroendocrine gastrointestinal and lung tumors (carcinoid tumors),
the carcinoid syndrome, and related disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 43.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 11-18-19:
Editorial update.

![Carcinoid
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarcinoidTumors_thumb.jpg)Carcinoid
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

