Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003562.htm    
                                Description: The serotonin test measures the level of serotonin in the blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Serotonin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003562.htm

# Serotonin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The serotonin test measures the level of serotonin in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain.
Others feel a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a
slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Serotonin is a chemical produced by nerve cells.

This test may be done to diagnose carcinoid syndrome. Carcinoid syndrome is a
group of symptoms associated with carcinoid tumors. These are tumors of the
small intestine, colon, appendix, and bronchial tubes in the lungs. People
with carcinoid syndrome often have high levels of serotonin in the blood.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 50 to 200 ng/mL (0.28 to 1.14 Âµmol/L).

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
labs use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health
care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal level may indicate carcinoid syndrome.

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

5-HT level; 5-hydroxytryptamine level; Serotonin test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine)Â - serum or blood.
In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1010-1011.

Hande KR. Neuroendocrine tumors and the carcinoid syndrome. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 232.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carcinoid
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarcinoidTumors_thumb.jpg)Carcinoid
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

