Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000923.htm    
                                Description: Returning to work after cancer treatment is one way to get your life back to normal. But you may have some concerns about what it will be like. Knowing your rights may help ease any anxiety.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Returning to work after cancer: know your rights

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000923.htm

# Returning to work after cancer: know your rights

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Returning to work after cancer treatment is one way to get your life back to
normal. But you may have some concerns about what it will be like. Knowing
your rights may help ease any anxiety.

Several laws protect your right to work. In most cases, to be protected by
these laws, you need to tell your employer that you have had cancer. However,
your employer must protect your privacy. An employer also cannot ask about
your treatment, health, or chance of recovery.

Learn about your legal rights as a cancer survivor and the laws that protect
you.

## The American Disabilities Act

This law can protect you if your company has 15 or more people on staff. Under
this law, employers must make reasonable accommodations for people with
disabilities. Some cancer or treatment side effects like fatigue, pain, and
trouble concentrating, are considered disabilities.

Reasonable accommodations might include:

      * Flexible work hours
      * Ability to work from home on some days
      * Time off for doctor appointments
      * Change in duties if you can no longer do your old job
      * Work breaks so you can take medication or call your health care provider 

You can request a reasonable accommodation at any point while you are working.
For instance, you can make a request on your first day back and after several
months. Your employer may ask for a letter from your doctor, but cannot ask to
see your medical records.

## The Family Medical Leave Act

This law applies to workplaces with more than 50 employees. It allows people
with cancer and other serious illness to take unpaid leave without risking
losing their job. It also covers family members who need to take time off to
care for their loved one.

Under this law, you have the following rights:

      * 12 weeks of unpaid leave. If you are on leave for more than 12 weeks in a year, your employer does not have to keep a position open for you.
      * Ability to return to work as long as you return within 12 weeks.
      * Ability to work fewer hours if you need to. If you cannot do your old job, your employer can transfer you. Your rate of pay and benefits must be comparable. 

You have the following responsibilities under the Family and Medical Leave
Act:

      * You must give your employer 30-days notice or as much time as you can before taking leave.
      * You must schedule your health care visits so they disrupt work as little as possible.
      * You must provide a doctor's letter if your employer requests it.
      * You must get a second opinion if your employer requests one, as long as the company covers the cost. 

## The Affordable Care Act

The Affordable Care Act went into effect on January 1, 2014. Under this law, a
group health plan cannot refuse to cover you because you had cancer. The law
protects you in these other ways as well:

      * A health plan cannot stop covering you once the cost of care reaches a certain amount.
      * A health plan cannot stop covering you because you have cancer.
      * A health plan cannot charge a higher rate because you have cancer.
      * A health plan cannot make you wait for coverage to begin. Once you sign up for a plan, coverage starts right away. 

Many preventive services no longer include copays. Your health plan has to
cover the full cost of:

      * Pap tests and HPV vaccine for women
      * Mammograms for women over 40
      * Colorectal screenings for people between the age of 50 and 75
      * Tobacco cessation counseling
      * Some drugs that help you quit smoking 

## Working With Your Employer

When returning to work, there are some things you can do to make things go
more smoothly.

      * Set up a meeting with your manager to work out transition issues. Set up ongoing meetings to check in about how things are going.
      * Tell your manager about what types of follow-up appointments you may need.
      * Discuss what accommodations you may need, if any.
      * Try to be realistic about what you can handle. You may need to ease into a full workload.
      * Decide whether to tell your coworkers about your cancer. Who you tell is up to you. You may only want to tell a few people, or you may decide to let everyone know. Keep in mind that not everyone will react the same way. 

## Looking for a New Job

It is your choice whether to talk about your cancer history during a job
interview. It is not legal for the person interviewing you to ask about your
health or medical condition. Even if you tell them you had cancer, the person
interviewing you cannot ask questions about your diagnosis or treatment.

If you have gaps in your work history, you can organize your resume by skills
rather than dates of employment. If a question comes up about the time when
you could not work, it is up to you to decide how much information to share.
If you do not want to talk about cancer, you may just want to say you were out
of work for a health-related issue, but that it is in the past.

You may find it helpful to talk a career counselor or oncology social worker
about job-hunt strategies. You can also practice role-playing so you know how
to handle certain questions.

## Where to Get Help

If you feel you have been discriminated against, you can contact a counselor
at the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission --
www.eeoc.gov/federal/fed_employees/counselor.cfm. You have 45 days after the
day the event took place to file a complaint.

## References

ASCO Cancer.Net website. Finding a job after cancer.
www.cancer.net/survivorship/life-after-cancer/finding-job-after-cancer.
Updated December 8, 2016. Accessed February 15, 2018.

ASCO Cancer.Net website. Cancer and workplace discrimination.
www.cancer.net/survivorship/life-after-cancer/cancer-and-workplace-
discrimination. Updated February 16, 2017. Accessed February 15, 2018.

ASCO Cancer.Net website. Returning to school or work after cancer.
www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/young-adults/returning-school-or-work-
after-cancer. Updated October 2017. Accessed February 15, 2018.

HealthCare.gov website. Health coverage rights and protections.
www.healthcare.gov/health-care-law-protections/#part=3. Accessed February 15,
2018.

National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship (NCCS) website. Employment rights.
www.canceradvocacy.org/resources/employment-rights. Accessed February 15,
2018.

National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship (NCCS) website. How employment
discrimination laws protect cancer survivors.
www.canceradvocacy.org/resources/employment-rights/how-employment-
discrimination-laws-protect-cancer-survivors. Accessed February 15, 2018.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

