Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000916.htm    
                                Description: Fatigue is a feeling of tiredness, weakness, or exhaustion. It is different from drowsiness, which can be relieved with a good night    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coping with cancer - managing fatigue

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000916.htm

# Coping with cancer - managing fatigue

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fatigue is a feeling of tiredness, weakness, or exhaustion. It is different
from drowsiness, which can be relieved with a good night's sleep.

Most people feel fatigue while being treated for cancer. How severe your
fatigue is depends on the type of cancer you have, the stage of cancer, and
your treatments. Other factors like your general health, diet, and stress
level can also add to fatigue.

Fatigue often goes away after your last cancer treatment. For some people
though, it can last for months after treatment ends.

## What Causes Fatigue

Your fatigue could be caused by one or more factors. Here are ways having
cancer can cause fatigue.

Simply having cancer can drain your energy:

      * Some cancers release proteins called cytokines that can make you feel fatigued.
      * Some tumors can change the way your body uses energy and leave you feeling tired. 

Many cancer treatments cause fatigue as a side effect:

      *  **Chemotherapy.** You may feel most worn out for a few days after each chemo treatment. Your fatigue may get worse with each treatment. For some people, fatigue is worst about halfway through the full course of chemo.
      *  **Radiation.** Fatigue often gets more intense with each radiation treatment until about halfway through the cycle. Then it often levels off and stays about the same until the end of treatment.
      *  **Surgery.** Fatigue is common when recovering from any surgery. Having surgery along with other cancer treatments can make fatigue last longer.
      *  ** **Biologic therapy.**** Treatments that use vaccines or bacteria to trigger your immune system to fight cancer can cause fatigue. 

Other factors:

      *  **Anemia.** Some cancer treatments decrease, or kill, red blood cells that carry oxygen from your heart to the rest of your body.
      *  **Poor nutrition.** Nausea or lost appetite can make it hard to keep your body fueled. Even if your eating habits do not change, your body may have trouble taking in nutrients during cancer treatment.
      *  **Emotional stress.** Having cancer can make you feel anxious, depressed, or distressed. These emotions can drain your energy and motivation.
      *  **Medicines.** Many of the medicines for treating pain, depression, insomnia, and nausea can also cause fatigue.
      *  **Sleep problems.** Pain, distress, and other cancer side effects can make it hard to get truly rested. 

## What You Can Do

**Talk to your health care provider.** Keep track of following details so you
can tell your provider about your fatigue.

      * When the fatigue started
      * Whether your fatigue is getting worse over time
      * Times of day when you feel most fatigued
      * Anything (activities, people, food, medicine) that seem to make it worse or better
      * Whether you have trouble sleeping or feel rested after a full night's sleep 

Knowing the level and trigger of your fatigue can help your provider better
treat it.

 **Save your energy.** Take steps to organize your home and life. Then you can
spend your energy doing what matters most to you.

      * Ask friends and family to help you with things like grocery shopping and cooking meals.
      * If you have kids, ask a friend or babysitter to take them for an afternoon so you can get some quiet time.
      * Put things you use often within easy reach so you do not have to use energy looking for them.
      * Save the times of day when you have more energy for doing the things that matter most to you.
      * Avoid activities that drain your energy.
      * Take time every day to do things that give you energy or help you relax.

 **Eat well.** Make safe nutrition a priority. If you have lost your appetite,
eat foods high in calories and protein to keep your energy up.

      * Eat small meals throughout the day instead of 2 or 3 big meals
      * Drink smoothies and vegetable juice for healthy calories
      * Eat olive oil and canola oil with pasta, bread, or in salad dressing
      * Drink water between meals to stay hydrated. Aim for 6 to 8 glasses a day 

**Stay active.** Sitting still for too long can make fatigue worse. Some light
activity can get your circulation going. You should not exercise to the point
of feeling more tired while you are being treated for cancer. But, taking a
daily walk with as many breaks as you need can help boost your energy and
sleep better.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if fatigue is making it difficult or impossible for you to
manage basic tasks. Call your provider right away if you feel any of these
things:

      * Dizzy
      * Confused
      * Unable to get out of bed for 24 hours
      * Lose your sense of balance
      * Have trouble catching your breath 

## Alternative Names

Cancer - related fatigue; CRF

## References

Brell JM, Jones LW. Fatigue. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH,
Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 45.

National Cancer Institute website. Fatigue (PDQ) - health professional
version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-effects/fatigue/fatigue-
hp-pdq. Updated June 29, 2017. Accessed December 17, 2018.

## Review Date 10/19/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer
      * Fatigue

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

