

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Trichomoniasis

Minus

Related Pages

Trichomoniasis is the most prevalent nonviral sexually transmitted infection
in the United States, affecting an estimated 3.7 million persons ( _533_ ).
Health disparities persist in the epidemiology of _T. vaginalis_ infection in
the United States: 13% of black women are affected compared with 1.8% of non-
Hispanic white women _(639)_. _T. vaginalis_ infection affects >11% of women
aged ≥40 years ( _640_ ), and particularly high prevalence has been detected
among STD clinic patients ( _641_ ) (26% of symptomatic women and 6.5%
asymptomatic women tested) and incarcerated persons (9%-32% of incarcerated
women [ _135,136,640,642,643_] and 2%-9% of incarcerated men) (
_136,137,644,645_). The prevalence of trichomoniasis in MSM is low ( _646,647_
).

Some infected men have symptoms of urethritis, epididymitis, or prostatitis,
and some infected women have vaginal discharge that might be diffuse,
malodorous, or yellow-green with or without vulvar irritation. However, most
infected persons (70%-85%) have minimal or no symptoms, and untreated
infections might last for months to years ( _86,639,648,649_). Although
partners might be unaware of their infection, it is readily passed between sex
partners during penile-vaginal sex ( _650_ ). Among persons who are sexually
active, the best way to prevent trichomoniasis is through consistent and
correct use of condoms during all penile-vaginal sexual encounters ( _22_ ).
Partners of men who have been circumcised might have a somewhat reduced risk
of _T. vaginalis_ infection ( _56,651_). Douching is not recommended because
it might increase the risk for vaginal infections, including trichomoniasis (
_652_ ).

_T. vaginalis_ infection is associated with two- to threefold increased risk
for HIV acquisition ( _653-656_ ), preterm birth, and other adverse pregnancy
outcomes among pregnant women. Among women with HIV infection, _T. vaginalis_
infection is associated with increased risk for PID ( _657-659_ ). Routine
screening of asymptomatic women with HIV infection for _T. vaginalis_ is
recommended because of the adverse events associated with asymptomatic
trichomoniasis and HIV infection.

Diagnostic testing for _T. vaginalis_ should be performed in women seeking
care for vaginal discharge. Screening might be considered for persons
receiving care in high-prevalence settings (e.g., STD clinics and correctional
facilities) and for asymptomatic persons at high risk for infection (e.g.,
persons with multiple sex partners, exchanging sex for payment, illicit drug
use, or a history of STD). However, data are lacking on whether screening and
treatment for asymptomatic trichomoniasis in high prevalence settings or
persons at high risk can reduce any adverse health events and health
disparities or reduce community burden of infection. Decisions about screening
might be informed by local epidemiology of _T. vaginalis_ infection.

Whether the rectum can be a reservoir for _T. vaginalis_ infection is unclear;
data are needed to clarify whether this occasional finding might reflect
recent depositing contamination in up to 5% of persons reporting recent
receptive anal sex ( _660,661_ ). Further, the efficacy, benefit, and cost-
effectiveness of rectal screening are unknown; therefore, rectal testing for
_T. vaginalis_ is not recommended. Similarly, oral testing for _T. vaginalis_
is not recommended because of a lack of evidence for oral infections. _T.
vaginalis_ infection is not a nationally notifiable condition in the United
States ( _118,662_).

###  Diagnostic Considerations

The use of highly sensitive and specific tests is recommended for detecting
_T. vaginalis._ Among women, NAAT is highly sensitive, often detecting three
to five times more _T. vaginalis_ infections than wet-mount microscopy, a
method with poor sensitivity (51%-65%) ( _663,664_ ). The APTIMA _T.
vaginalis_ assay (Hologic Gen-Probe, San Diego, CA) is FDA-cleared for
detection of _T. vaginalis_ from vaginal, endocervical, or urine specimens
from women. This assay detects RNA by transcription-mediated amplification
with a clinical sensitivity of 95.3%-100% and specificity of 95.2%-100% (
_665,666_ ). Among women, vaginal swab and urine have up to 100% concordance (
_663_ ). As analyte-specific reagents, this assay can be used with urine or
urethral swabs from men if validated per CLIA regulations. The sale,
distribution, and use of analyte-specific reagents are allowed under 21 C.F.R.
809.30 pertaining to in vitro diagnostic products for human use. For _T.
vaginalis_ diagnosis in men, the sensitivity of self-collected penile-meatal
swabs was higher than that of urine in one study (80% and 39%, respectively) (
_667_ ). The BD Probe Tec TV Qx Amplified DNA Assay (Becton Dickinson,
Franklin Lakes, New Jersey) is FDA-cleared for detection of _T. vaginalis_
from endocervical, vaginal, or urine specimens from women. Although it might
be feasible to perform these tests on the same specimen used for chlamydia and
gonorrhea screening, the epidemiology of trichomoniasis is distinct and should
not be overlooked in older adults.

Other FDA-cleared tests to detect _T. vaginalis_ in vaginal secretions include
the OSOM Trichomonas Rapid Test (Sekisui Diagnostics, Framingham, MA), an
antigen-detection test using immunochromatographic capillary flow dipstick
technology that can be performed at the point of care, and the Affirm VP III
(Becton Dickinson, Sparks, MD), a DNA hybridization probe test that evaluates
for _T. vaginalis_ , _G. vaginalis_ , and _Candida albicans_. The results of
the OSOM Trichomonas Rapid Test are available in approximately 10 minutes,
with sensitivity 82%-95% and specificity 97%-100% ( _666,668_). Self-testing
might become an option, as a study of 209 young women aged 14-22 years found
that >99% could correctly perform and interpret her own self-test using the
OSOM assay, with a high correlation with clinician interpretation (96%
agreement, κ = 0.87) ( _669_ ). The results of the Affirm VP III are available
within 45 minutes. Sensitivity and specificity are 63% and 99.9%,
respectively, compared with culture and TMA; sensitivity might be higher among
women who are symptomatic ( _670,671_ ). Neither the OSOM nor the Affirm VP
III test is FDA-cleared for use with specimens obtained from men.

Culture was considered the gold standard method for diagnosing _T. vaginalis_
infection before molecular detection methods became available. Culture has a
sensitivity of 75%-96% and a specificity of up to 100% ( _475_ ). In women,
vaginal secretions are the preferred specimen type for culture, as urine
culture is less sensitive ( _475,672,673_). In men, culture specimens require
a urethral swab, urine sediment, and/or semen. To improve yield, multiple
specimens from men can be used to inoculate a single culture.

The most common method for _T. vaginalis_ diagnosis might be microscopic
evaluation of wet preparations of genital secretions because of convenience
and relatively low cost. Unfortunately, the sensitivity of wet mount is low
(51%-65%) in vaginal specimens ( _475,666_) and lower in specimens from men
(e.g., urethral specimens, urine sediment, and semen). Clinicians using wet
mounts should attempt to evaluate slides immediately because sensitivity
declines as evaluation is delayed, decreasing by up to 20% within 1 hour after
collection ( _674_, _675_ ). When highly sensitive (e.g., NAAT) testing on
specimens is not feasible, a testing algorithm (e.g., wet mount first,
followed by NAAT if negative) can improve diagnostic sensitivity in persons
with an initial negative result by wet mount ( _475_ ). Although _T.
vaginalis_ may be an incidental finding on a Pap test, neither conventional
nor liquid-based Pap tests are considered diagnostic tests for trichomoniasis,
because false negatives and false positives can occur.

### Treatment

Treatment reduces symptoms and signs of _T. vaginalis_ infection and might
reduce transmission. Likelihood of adverse outcomes in women with HIV also is
reduced with _T. vaginalis_ therapy.

##### _Recommended Regimen_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Metronidazole** 2 g orally in a single dose  
OR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Tinidazole** 2 g orally in a single dose

#####  _Alternative Regimen_  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Metronidazole**  500 mg orally twice a day for 7 days

Alcohol consumption should be avoided during treatment with nitroimidazoles.
To reduce the possibility of a disulfiram-like reaction, abstinence from
alcohol use should continue for 24 hours after completion of metronidazole or
72 hours after completion of tinidazole.

The nitroimidazoles are the only class of antimicrobial medications known to
be effective against _T. vaginalis_ infections. Of these drugs, metronidazole
and tinidazole have been cleared by FDA for the oral or parenteral treatment
of trichomoniasis. Tinidazole is generally more expensive, reaches higher
levels in serum and the genitourinary tract, has a longer half-life than
metronidazole (12.5 hours versus 7.3 hours), and has fewer gastrointestinal
side effects ( _676-678_ ). In randomized clinical trials, recommended
metronidazole regimens have resulted in cure rates of approximately 84%-98% (
_679-681_ ), and the recommended tinidazole regimen has resulted in cure rates
of approximately 92%-100% ( _680,682-685_). Randomized controlled trials
comparing single 2 g doses of metronidazole and tinidazole suggest that
tinidazole is equivalent or superior to metronidazole in achieving
parasitologic cure and resolution of symptoms ( _686_ ).

Metronidazole gel does not reach therapeutic levels in the urethra and
perivaginal glands. Because it is less efficacious than oral metronidazole, it
is not recommended.

### Other Management Considerations

Providers should advise persons infected with _T. vaginalis_ to abstain from
sex until they and their sex partners are treated (i.e., when therapy has been
completed and any symptoms have resolved). Testing for other STDs including
HIV should be performed in persons infected with _T vaginalis_.

### Follow-up

Because of the high rate of reinfection among women treated for trichomoniasis
(17% within 3 months in one study) ( _86_ ), retesting for _T. vaginalis_ is
recommended for all sexually active women within 3 months following initial
treatment regardless of whether they believe their sex partners were treated
(see Diagnostic Considerations). Testing by nucleic acid amplification can be
conducted as soon as 2 weeks after treatment ( _687,688_ ) _._ Data are
insufficient to support retesting men.

### Management of Sex Partners

Concurrent treatment of all sex partners is critical for symptomatic relief,
microbiologic cure, and prevention of transmission and reinfections. Current
partners should be referred for presumptive therapy to avoid reinfection.
Partners should be advised to abstain from intercourse until they and their
sex partners have been adequately treated and any symptoms have resolved. EPT
might have a role in partner management for trichomoniasis ( _97,98,689_) and
can be used in states where permissible by law; however, no one partner
management intervention has been shown to be superior in reducing reinfection
rates. Though no definitive data exist to guide treatment for partners of
persons with persistent or recurrent trichomoniasis in whom nonadherance and
reinfection are unlikely, partners benefit from undergoing evaluation and
receiving the same regimen as the patient (see Persistent or Recurrent
Trichomoniasis).

### Persistent or Recurrent Trichomoniasis

Persistent or recurrent infection caused by antimicrobial-resistant _T.
vaginalis_ or other causes should be distinguished from the possibility of
reinfection from an untreated sex partner. Although most recurrent _T.
vaginalis_ infections are thought to result from reinfection, some infections
might be attributed to antimicrobial resistance. Metronidazole resistance
occurs in 4%-10% of cases of vaginal trichomoniasis ( _690,691_ ), and
tinidazole resistance in 1% ( _691_ ). In general, _T. vaginalis_ isolates
have lower minimum lethal concentrations to tinidazole than metronidazole (
_692_ ). Emerging nitroimidazole-resistant trichomoniasis is concerning,
because few alternatives to standard therapy exist. Single-dose therapy should
be avoided for treating recurrent trichomoniasis that is not likely a result
of reinfection. If treatment failure has occurred with metronidazole 2 g
single dose and reinfection is excluded, the patient (and their partner[s])
can be treated with metronidazole 500 mg orally twice daily for 7 days. If
this regimen fails, clinicians should consider treatment with metronidazole or
tinidazole at 2 g orally for 7 days. If several 1-week regimens have failed in
a person who is unlikely to have nonadherence or reinfection, testing of the
organism for metronidazole and tinidazole susceptibility is recommended (
_693_ ). CDC has experience with susceptibility testing for nitroimidazole-
resistant _T. vaginalis_ and treatment management of infected persons and can
provide assistance (telephone: 404-718-4141; website:
https://www.cdc.gov/laboratory/specimen-
submission/detail.html?CDCTestCode=CDC-10239). Higher dose tinidazole at 2-3g
for 14 days, often in combination with intravaginal tinidazole, can be
considered in cases of nitroimidazole-resistant infections; however, such
cases should be managed in consultation with an expert.

Alternative regimens might be effective but have not been systematically
evaluated; therefore, consultation with an infectious-disease specialist is
recommended. The most anecdotal experience has been with intravaginal
paromomycin in combination with high-dose tinidazole ( _694-696_ ); clinical
improvement has been reported with other alternative regimens including
intravaginal boric acid ( _697,698_ ) and nitazoxanide ( _699_ ). The
following topically applied agents have shown minimal success (<50%) and are
not recommended: intravaginal betadine (povidone-iodine), clotrimazole, acetic
acid, furazolidone, gentian violet, nonoxynol-9, and potassium permanganate (
_700_ ). No other topical microbicide has been shown to be effective against
trichomoniasis ( _701_ ).

### Special Considerations

#### Allergy, Intolerance, and Adverse Reactions

Metronidazole and tinidazole are both nitroimidazoles. Patients with an IgE
mediated-type allergy to a nitroimidazole can be managed by metronidazole
desensitization according to a published regimen ( _702_ ) and in consultation
with a specialist.

####  Pregnancy

_T. vaginalis_ infection in pregnant women is associated with adverse
pregnancy outcomes, particularly premature rupture of membranes, preterm
delivery, and delivery of a low birthweight infant ( _658,703-705_). Although
metronidazole treatment produces parasitologic cure, certain trials have shown
no significant difference in perinatal morbidity following metronidazole
treatment. One trial suggested the possibility of increased preterm delivery
in women with _T. vaginalis_ infection who received metronidazole treatment (
_706_ ), yet study limitations prevented definitive conclusions regarding the
risks of treatment. More recent, larger studies have shown no positive or
negative association between metronidazole use during pregnancy and adverse
outcomes of pregnancy ( _634,707-710_). If treatment is considered, the
recommended regimen in pregnant women is metronidazole 2 g orally in a single
dose. Symptomatic pregnant women, regardless of pregnancy stage, should be
tested and considered for treatment. Treatment of _T. vaginalis_ infection can
relieve symptoms of vaginal discharge in pregnant women and reduce sexual
transmission to partners. Although perinatal transmission of trichomoniasis is
uncommon, treatment also might prevent respiratory or genital infection of the
newborn ( _711,712_ ). Clinicians should counsel symptomatic pregnant women
with trichomoniasis regarding the potential risks for and benefits of
treatment and about the importance of partner treatment and condom use in the
prevention of sexual transmission.

The benefit of routine screening for _T. vaginalis_ in asymptomatic pregnant
women has not been established. However, screening at the first prenatal visit
and prompt treatment, as appropriate, are recommended for pregnant women with
HIV infection, because _T. vaginalis_ infection is a risk factor for vertical
transmission of HIV ( _713_ ). Pregnant women with HIV who are treated for _T.
vaginalis_ infection should be retested 3 months after treatment.

Although metronidazole crosses the placenta, data suggest that it poses a low
risk to pregnant women ( _317_ ). No evidence of teratogenicity or mutagenic
effects in infants has been found in multiple cross-sectional and cohort
studies of pregnant women ( _708-710,714_). Women can be treated with 2 g
metronidazole in a single dose at any stage of pregnancy.

Metronidazole is secreted in breast milk. With maternal oral therapy,
breastfed infants receive metronidazole in doses that are lower than those
used to treat infections in infants, although the active metabolite adds to
the total infant exposure. Plasma levels of the drug and metabolite are
measurable, but remain less than maternal plasma levels
(http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/sis/htmlgen?LACTExternal). Although several
reported case series found no evidence of adverse effects in infants exposed
to metronidazole in breast milk, some clinicians advise deferring
breastfeeding for 12-24 hours following maternal treatment with a single 2-g
dose of metronidazole ( _635_ ). Maternal treatment with metronidazole (400 mg
three times daily for 7 days) produced a lower concentration in breast milk
and was considered compatible with breastfeeding over longer periods of time (
_636,637_ ).

Data from studies involving human subjects are limited regarding use of
tinidazole in pregnancy; however, animal data suggest this drug poses moderate
risk. Thus, tinidazole should be avoided in pregnant women, and breastfeeding
should be deferred for 72 hours following a single 2-g dose of tinidazole
(http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov/newtoxnet/lactmed.htm).

####  HIV Infection

Up to 53% of women with HIV infection also are infected with _T. vaginalis
(715,716). T. vaginalis_ infection in these women is significantly associated
with PID ( _659_ ), and treatment of trichomoniasis is associated with
significant decreases in genital-tract HIV viral load and viral shedding (
_717,718_ ). For these reasons, routine screening and prompt treatment are
recommended for all women with HIV infection; screening should occur at entry
to care and then at least annually thereafter. A randomized clinical trial
involving women with HIV infection and _T. vaginalis_ infection demonstrated
that a single dose of metronidazole 2 g orally was less effective than 500 mg
twice daily for 7 days ( _719_ ). Thus, to improve cure rates, women with HIV
infection who receive a diagnosis of _T. vaginalis_ infection should be
treated with metronidazole 500 mg orally twice daily for 7 days (rather than
with a 2-g single dose of metronidazole). Factors that might interfere with
standard single-dose treatment for trichomoniasis in these women include high
rates of asymptomatic BV co-infections, use of antiretroviral therapy, changes
in vaginal ecology, and impaired immunity ( _656,720,721_).

##### Treatment

Treatment reduces symptoms and signs of _T. vaginalis_ infection and might
reduce transmission. Likelihood of adverse outcomes in women with HIV is also
reduced with _T. vaginalis_ therapy.

##### _Recommended Regimen for Women with HIV Infection_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Metronidazole** 500 mg orally twice daily for 7 days

In women with HIV infection who receive a diagnosis of _T. vaginalis_
infection, retesting is recommended within 3 months following initial
treatment; NAAT is encouraged because of higher sensitivity of these tests.
Data are insufficient to recommend routine screening, alternative treatment
regimens of longer duration, or retesting in men.

Next

Page last reviewed: June 4, 2015

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home 2015 STD Treatment Guidelines

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction and Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Prevention Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Special Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emerging Issues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV Infection: Detection,Counseling and Referral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diseases Characterized by Genital, Anal, or Perianal Ulcers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chancroid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Genital HSV Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Granuloma Inguinale (Donovanosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lymphogranuloma Venereum (LGV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syphilis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syphilis During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Congenital Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Management of Persons Who Have a History of Penicillin Allergy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diseases Characterized by Urethritis and Cervicitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chlamydial Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gonococcal Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diseases Characterized by Vaginal Discharge expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bacterial Vaginosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Vulvovaginal Candidiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Epididymitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Anogenital Warts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HPV-Associated Cancers and Precancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Proctitis, Proctocolitis, and Enteritis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ectoparasitic Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Assault and Abuse and STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Terms and Abbreviations Used in This Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Consultants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Evidence Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Screening Recommendations Referenced in Treatment Guidelines and Original Recommendation Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Questions and Answers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * HPV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * _Mycoplasma genitalium_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sexual Assault
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Trichomoniasis

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

