Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000061.htm    
                                Description: When you have cancer, you need good nutrition to help keep your body strong. To do this you need to be aware of the foods you eat and how you prepare them. Use the information below to help you eat safely    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Safe eating during cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000061.htm

# Safe eating during cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have cancer, you need good nutrition to help keep your body strong.
To do this you need to be aware of the foods you eat and how you prepare them.
Use the information below to help you eat safely during your cancer treatment.

## Be Careful What You Eat

Some raw foods can contain germs that can hurt you when cancer or treatment
weakens your immune system. Ask your health care provider about how to eat
well and safely.

Eggs can have a bacteria called _Salmonella_ on their inside and outside. This
is why eggs should be cooked completely before eating.

      * Yolks and whites should be cooked solid. Do not eat runny eggs.
      * Do not eat foods that may have raw eggs in them (such as certain Caesar salad dressings, cookie dough, cake batter, and hollandaise sauce).

Be careful when you have dairy products:

      * All milk, yogurt, cheese, and other dairy should have the word pasteurized on their containers.
      * Do not eat soft cheeses or cheeses with blue veins (such as Brie, Camembert, Roquefort, Stilton, Gorgonzola, and Bleu).
      * Do not eat Mexican-style cheeses (such as Queso Blanco fresco and Cotija).

Fruits and vegetables:

      * Wash all raw fruits, vegetables, and fresh herbs with cold running water.
      * Do not eat raw vegetable sprouts (such as alfalfa and mung bean).
      * Do not use fresh salsa or salad dressings that are kept in the refrigerated cases of the grocery store.
      * Drink only juice that says pasteurized on the container.

Do not eat raw honey. Eat only heat-treated honey. Avoid sweets that have
creamy fillings.

## Cook Foods Safely

When you cook, make sure you cook your food long enough.

Do not eat uncooked tofu. Cook tofu for at least 5 minutes.

When eating chicken and other poultry, cook to a temperature of 165Â°F
(74Â°C). Use a food thermometer to measure the thickest part of the meat.

If you cook beef, lamb, pork, or venison:

      * Do not eat raw meat, such as Japanese sashimi.
      * Make sure meat is not red or pink before you eat it.
      * Cook meat to 160Â°F (74Â°C).

When eating fish, oysters, and other shellfish:

      * Do not eat raw fish (such as sushi), raw oysters, or any other raw shellfish.
      * Make sure all fish and shellfish you eat is cooked thoroughly.

Heat all casseroles to 165Â°F (73.9Â°C). Warm hot dogs and lunch meats to
steaming before you eat them.

## Be Careful When You Eat Out

When you dine out, stay away from:

      * Raw fruits and vegetables
      * Salad bars, buffets, sidewalk vendors, potlucks, and delis 

Ask if all fruit juices are pasteurized.

Use only salad dressings, sauces, and salsas from single-serving packages. Eat
out at times when restaurants are less crowded. Always ask for your food to be
prepared fresh, even at fast food restaurants.

## Alternative Names

Cancer treatment - eating safely; Chemotherapy - eating safely;
Immunosuppression - eating safely; Low white blood cell count - eating safely;
Neutropenia - eating safely

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Nutrition in cancer care (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-
effects/appetite-loss/nutrition-hp-pdq. Updated November 11, 2017. Accessed
February 16, 2018.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services website. Cook to the right
temperature. www.foodsafety.gov/keep/basics/cook/index.html. Accessed February
16, 2018.

## Read More

      * Bone marrow transplant
      * Mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal radiation - discharge
      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Bleeding during cancer treatment
      * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
      * Brain radiation - discharge
      * Breast radiation - discharge
      * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
      * Chest radiation - discharge
      * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
      * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
      * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
      * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
      * Eating extra calories when sick - children
      * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
      * Pelvic radiation - discharge

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

