Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000933.htm    
                                Description: Sometimes cancer cannot be fully treated. This means there is no way to get rid of the cancer completely, yet the cancer also may not progress rapidly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dealing with chronic cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000933.htm

# Dealing with chronic cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sometimes cancer cannot be fully treated. This means there is no way to get
rid of the cancer completely, yet the cancer also may not progress rapidly.

It may be possible to control the cancer for months or years. Doing so
requires ongoing treatment to help keep the cancer from progressing for as
long as possible. Therefore, it becomes more like a chronic illness.

## Cancer That Won't Go Away

Certain types of cancer are more likely to become chronic and never completely
go away:

      * Chronic leukemia
      * Some types of lymphoma
      * Ovarian cancer
      * Breast cancer 

Often, these cancers have spread to other parts of the body (metastasized).
They cannot be cured, but can often be controlled for a period of time.

## Controlling Chronic Cancer

When you have a chronic cancer, the focus is on keeping it under control, not
to cure the cancer. This means keeping the tumor from getting larger or
spreading to other areas. Treatment for chronic cancer can also help manage
symptoms.

When cancer is not growing, it is called being in remission or having stable
disease. Your health care provider will keep a close watch on the cancer to
look for any growth. You may need ongoing treatment to help keep the cancer
under control. This is called maintenance treatment.

If your cancer starts to grow or spread, you may need a different treatment to
try to make it shrink or stop growing. Your cancer may go through several
rounds of growing and shrinking. Or your cancer may not grow at all for many
years.

Since each person and each cancer is different, your provider may not be able
to tell you exactly how long your cancer can be controlled.

## Treatment for Chronic Cancer

Chemotherapy (chemo) or biologic therapy may be used for chronic cancers.
There are many types of drugs from which to chose. If one kind does not work,
or stops working, your provider may suggest using another one.

Sometimes, cancer can become resistant to all of the treatments approved to
treat it. If this happens, talk with your doctor provider about your options.
You may want to try another treatment, join a clinical trial, or you may
decide to stop treatment.

Whatever treatment you receive, it is very important to follow your provider's
instructions for taking the drug. Got to your doctor appointments as
scheduled. If you have any side effects, tell your provider. There may be ways
to lessen side effects. DO NOT stop taking any drug without first talking with
your provider.

## How Long to Continue Treatment

There is no limit on how long you can continue treatment for chronic cancer.
It is a personal decision you need to make with the help of your provider and
loved ones. Your decision may depend on:

      * The type of cancer you have
      * Your age
      * Your overall health
      * How you feel after treatment
      * How well the treatment works to control your cancer
      * The side effects you have with treatment 

If you do decide to stop treatment that is no longer working, you can still
get palliative care or hospice care to treat the symptoms of your cancer. This
will not help treat the cancer, but it can help you feel your best for the
time you have left.

## Living with Cancer

It is not easy to live with a cancer you know will not go away. You may feel
sad, angry, or afraid. These suggestions may help you cope:

      *  **Do things you enjoy.** This might include going to see music or theater, traveling, or fishing. Whatever it is, make time to do it.
      *  **Enjoy the present.** Try to focus on enjoying the present instead of worrying about the future. Focus on the small things that bring you joy every day, such as spending time with family, reading a good book, or walking in the woods.
      *  **Share your feelings.** Sharing your feelings with others may help you feel better. You can talk with a close family member or friend, join a support group, or meet with a counselor or clergy member.
      *  **Let go of worry.** Feeling worried is normal, but try not to these thoughts take over. Acknowledge these fears and then practice letting them go. 

## References

American Cancer Society website. Managing cancer as a chronic illness.
www.cancer.org/treatment/survivorship-during-and-after-treatment/when-cancer-
doesnt-go-away.html. Updated February 12, 2016. Accessed February 15, 2018.

ASCO Cancer.net website. Coping with metastatic cancer. www.cancer.net/coping-
with-cancer/managing-emotions/coping-with-metastatic-cancer. Updated January
2016. Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. When cancer returns.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/when-cancer-returns.pdf. Updated
September 2011. Accessed February 15, 2017.

O'brien S, Jabbour E. The chronic leukemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman's Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 184.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

