Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000822.htm    
                                Description: After cancer treatment, you may have a lot of questions about your future. Now that treatment is over, what is next? What are the chances that cancer may recur? What can you do to stay healthy?    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Your cancer survivorship care plan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000822.htm

# Your cancer survivorship care plan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After cancer treatment, you may have a lot of questions about your future. Now
that treatment is over, what is next? What are the chances that cancer may
recur? What can you do to stay healthy?

A cancer survivorship care plan can help you feel more in control after
treatment. Learn what a care plan is, why you may want one, and how to get
one.

## What Is a Cancer Survivorship Care Plan?

A cancer survivorship care plan is a document that records information about
your cancer experience. It also includes details about your current health. It
can include information on:

Your cancer history:

      * Your diagnosis
      * The names of your health care providers and the facilities where you received treatment
      * Results of all your cancer tests and treatments
      * Information on any clinical trials you took part in

Your ongoing care after cancer treatment:

      * Types and dates of doctor visits you will have
      * Follow-up screenings and tests you will need
      * Recommendations for genetic counseling, if needed
      * Symptoms or side effects you have had since your cancer treatment ended and what to expect
      * Ways to care for yourself, such as through diet, exercise habits, counseling, or stopping smoking
      * Information about your legal rights as a cancer survivor
      * The risks of recurrence and symptoms to watch for in case your cancer returns

## Why Do You Need a Cancer Survivorship Care Plan?

A cancer survivorship care plan serves as a complete record of your cancer
experience. It helps you keep all of that information in one place. If you or
your provider needs details about your cancer history, you know just where to
find them. This can be helpful for your ongoing health care. And if your
cancer returns, you and your provider can easily access information that could
help in planning your future treatment.

## How Do I Create a Cancer Survivorship Care Plan?

You may be given a care plan once your treatment ends. You may want to ask
your doctor about it to make sure you receive one.

There are also templates online you and your provider can use to create one:

      * American Society of Clinical Oncology -- www.cancer.net/survivorship/follow-care-after-cancer-treatment/asco-cancer-treatment-summaries
      * American Cancer Society -- www.cancer.org/treatment/survivorshipduringandaftertreatment/survivorshipcareplans/index

Make sure you and your providers keep your cancer survivorship care plan up-
to-date. When you have new tests or symptoms, record them in your care plan.
This will ensure you have the most current information about your health and
treatment. Be sure to bring your cancer survivorship care plan to all of your
doctor visits.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Survivorship: during and after treatment.
www.cancer.org/treatment/survivorship-during-and-after-treatment.html.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

American Society of Clinical Oncology website. Survivorship.
www.cancer.net/survivorship. Updated May 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Forsythe LP, Kent EE, Rowland JH. Survivorship. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage
JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 56.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

