Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000834.htm    
                                Description: Many people continue to work throughout their cancer treatment. Cancer, or the side effects of treatment, may make it hard to work on some days.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Working during cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000834.htm

# Working during cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people continue to work throughout their cancer treatment. Cancer, or the
side effects of treatment, may make it hard to work on some days.

Understanding how treatment may affect you at work can help you and your
coworkers know what to expect. Then you can plan ahead so that you can keep
working with as little interruption as possible.

## How Cancer May Affect You at Work

If you feel well enough, you may find that the daily routine of a job helps
you maintain a sense of balance. But having unrealistic goals could cause
extra stress. If possible, prepare yourself for the ways cancer could affect
you at work.

      * You may need to take time off for treatments.
      * You may get tired more easily.
      * At times, you could be distracted by pain or stress.
      * You could have trouble remembering some things. 

## Tips to Help You Work During Treatment

There are ways you can plan ahead to make working through cancer easier on you
and your co-workers.

      * Schedule treatments late in the day so you can go home afterwards.
      * Try to schedule chemotherapy at the end of the week so you have the weekend to recover.
      * Talk to your manager about working at home some days, if possible. You can spend less time commuting and rest when you need to.
      * Let your boss know your treatment schedule and when you will be out of work.
      * Ask your family and friends to help around the house. This will leave you with more energy for work.

## How to Talk to Coworkers About Cancer

Consider letting your co-workers know you have cancer. It might be easier to
work if you do not have to make excuses for taking time off. Some co-workers
may offer to help out if you have to be out of the office.

      * Consider talking first to one or two people you trust. They might have ideas of how to share the news with your other coworkers.
      * Decide in advance how much information you want to share. The right amount will depend on you and your work culture.
      * Be matter of fact when you share the news. Share the basic facts: that you have cancer, are getting treatment, and plan to keep working. 

Some people may have an emotional reaction to the news. Your job is to take
care of yourself. You do not have to help every person you know deal with
their feelings about cancer.

Some co-workers may say things that are not helpful. They may want to talk
about cancer when you want to work. They may ask for details that you do not
want to share. Some people might try to give you advice about your treatment.
Be ready with responses like:

      * "I would rather not discuss that at work."
      * "I need to focus on this project right now."
      * "That is a private decision I will make with my doctor." 

## If You Can Not Work

Some people find that working through treatment is too difficult. Taking time
off from work might be the best thing you can do for your health and your job.
If your work performance is suffering, taking time off will allow your
employer to bring in temporary help.

Your right to return to work after treatment is protected under federal law.
You cannot be fired for being sick.

Depending on how long you need to be out of work, short-term or long-term
disability may cover some of your salary while you are not working. Even if
you plan to work through treatment, it is a good idea to find out if your
employer has disability insurance. You can get an application for both short
and long-term disability in case you need to apply later.

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to your health care provider about how you feel at work, and if you
should consider taking time off. If you do, your provider can help you fill
out an application for disability coverage.

## Alternative Names

Chemotherapy - working; Radiation - working

## References

American Cancer Society website. Working during cancer treatment.
www.cancer.org/treatment/survivorship-during-and-after-treatment/staying-
active/working-during-and-after-treatment/working-during-cancer-
treatment.html. Updated April 14, 2014. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Cancer and Careers. For Healthcare Professionals: A Guide to Help Patients
Manage Work & Cancer. 3rd ed. 2014.
www.cancerandcareers.org/grid/assets/Ed_Series_Manual_-_3rd_Edition_-_2015_Updates_-
_FINAL_-_111715.pdf. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Facing forward: life after cancer
treatment. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/life-after-
treatment.pdf. Updated March 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

