

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Pets, Healthy People

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Horses

Minus

Related Pages

See the Farm Animals page for information about other animals commonly found
on farms.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthy People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthy Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources

![Veterinarian smiling with horse](/healthypets/images/horse-and-vet.jpg)

From pulling a plow over a farmer's field to carrying a cowboy across the open
range, horses have always had an important role in society. Today, horses are
generally considered companion animals, with close to 2 million U.S.
households reporting horse ownership.

Riding and working around horses have been shown to increase balance, self-
confidence, and self-esteem. However, as with any animal, people who work with
or own horses should be aware that sometimes horses can carry harmful germs
that can cause a variety of illnesses in people, ranging from minor skin
infections to serious illnesses. Besides touching a horse, common chores such
as cleaning stalls and grooming might put you at risk. One of the best ways
you can protect yourself from getting sick is to thoroughly wash your hands
after handling, cleaning up after, or feeding horses.

By providing your horse with routine veterinary care and following the Healthy
People tips, you are less likely to get sick from touching or owning a horse.

**Read below to learn about diseases that can be spread by horses and visit
the  Healthy People ****section to learn about staying healthy around horses.
**

Anthrax ( _Bacillus anthracis_ )

Anthrax is a naturally occurring disease of animals caused by bacteria found
in the environment. Although it is rare in the United States, people can get
sick with anthrax if they come in contact with infected animals, including
horses. People who live in areas where anthrax has occurred should consider
vaccinating their livestock against the disease every year.

**How it spreads:** Horses can become infected with anthrax when they ingest
spores in contaminated soil, plants, or water. People get infected by having
contact with sick, dead animals or eating meat contaminated with spores.
People can also get anthrax through a cut or scrape in the skin. Anthrax is
not contagious, which means it can't be spread from person to person.

**Who is at risk:** Anthrax is rare in the United States, but anyone who comes
in contact with anthrax spores can get sick. People at higher risk for anthrax
include veterinarians, livestock producers, laboratory professionals, and
people who handle animal products.

**Signs in horses:** Signs of anthrax in horses may include fever, chills,
severe colic, anorexia, depression, weakness, bloody diarrhea, and swellings.
Anthrax is usually fatal in horses.

**Symptoms in people:** The symptoms of anthrax in people depend on the type
of infection and can take anywhere from 1 day to more than 2 months to appear.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Cutaneous (skin) anthrax_ : A group of small blisters or bumps, a painless skin sore (ulcer) with a black center (scar) appearing after the small blisters, and swelling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Inhalation anthrax (from breathing in spores):_ Fever and chills, shortness of breath and chest discomfort, confusion, nausea or vomiting, headache, sweats, extreme tiredness, and body aches. This type of anthrax is very rare and mostly associated with an intentional spore release (bioterrorism).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Ingestion (stomach & intestines) anthrax:_ Fever and chills, swelling of neck or neck glands, sore throat, painful swallowing, diarrhea or bloody diarrhea, red face and eyes, and stomach pain.

All types of anthrax have the potential, if untreated, to spread throughout
the body and cause severe illness and even death.

More Information

Brucellosis ( _Brucella_ spp.)

Brucellosis is a bacterial disease caused by contact with infected animals and
contaminated animal products like raw milk. In horses, brucellosis can cause
lameness due to joint infection, including fistulous withers and "poll evil."
It can also cause abortions in pregnant mares, although this is less common.

**How it spreads:** The most common way people get brucellosis is by eating or
drinking unpasteurized/raw dairy products. People can also get brucellosis by
coming in contact with infected animals or contaminated animal tissues or
fluids (such as blood) and getting the bacteria in skin wounds or mucus
membranes.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get brucellosis, but people who drink raw milk
or work closely with animals may be more at risk. It is rare for people to get
brucellosis from horses.

**Signs in horses:** In horses, brucellosis causes fistulous withers, or "poll
evil," which is when there is inflammation and swelling in the bursa (the sac
of fluid between bone and soft tissue) of ligaments. This inflammation and
swelling typically affects the withers (highest part of the horse's back) or
poll (the part of the horse's head behind the ears). The inflamed tissue might
eventually burst, resulting in drainage of pus and further infection of the
surrounding tissue. Brucellosis can also affect an animal's ability to
reproduce, though it rarely causes abortions in horses.

**Symptoms in people:** People with brucellosis will usually become sick
within 2-4 weeks of exposure, but symptom onset can begin anywhere between 5
days to 6 months after exposure. Sick people will have flu-like symptoms.
Sometimes brucellosis can become a chronic illness that can be difficult to
treat and potentially lead to more severe health consequences. Occasionally,
brucellosis can affect reproductive organs and cause miscarriage.

More Information

Cryptosporidiosis ( _Cryptosporidium_ spp.)

Cryptosporidiosis is a parasitic disease caused by the germ _Cryptosporidium_
(or Crypto for short), which is spread by swallowing poop from an infected
person or animal.

**How it spreads:** Crypto spreads through swallowing poop containing the
germ, after contact with an infected person or animal or through food or water
contaminated with poop. The risk of getting Crypto from animals is hard to
predict, because many animals can be infected with the parasite but not have
any signs of being sick.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can been infected with Crypto, people with weakened
immune systems and young children are more at risk of serious illness. For
tips on how to protect yourself and loved ones, visit CDC's Crypto Prevention
& Control webpage.

**Signs in horses:** Horses infected with Crypto might or might not have any
signs of being sick. If infected with Crypto, pre-weaned foals appear to be
more likely to experience diarrhea than weanlings and yearlings, and older
horses.

**Symptoms in people:** People infected with Crypto might or might not have
signs of being sick. Patients with healthy immune systems can experience
frequent, non-bloody, watery diarrhea (typically lasting 1-2 weeks) with
nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and fever. Patients with weakened immune
systems can experience profuse watery diarrhea lasting weeks to months or even
life-threatening malnutrition and wasting.

More Information

Diseases that cause encephalitis

In the United States, mosquitoes spread several viruses that can cause
encephalitis in horses, including eastern equine encephalitis (EEE), West
Nile, and western equine encephalitis (WEE). Horses can be vaccinated for EEE,
West Nile virus, and WEE. Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis (VEE) can also
affect horses, but it is incredibly rare in the United States.

**How it spreads:** Mosquitoes spread these viruses through infective bites.
Animals, including birds and horses, can get infected through mosquito bites.
Mosquitoes get infected after biting an infected bird or animal. Mosquito
prevention and reducing the number of mosquitoes on your property can help
prevent the spread.

**Who is at risk:** People and horses with weakened immune systems are at
greater risk of illness. People at high risk include infants, older adults,
and people with certain medical conditions. People who spend time outside are
at greater risk of being bitten.

**Signs in horses:** Horses infected with one of these viruses may or may not
show signs of disease. Signs and symptoms range from mild illness to death.
Horses with nervous system disease can have depression, trouble walking,
paralysis, convulsions, or other neurologic signs. These diseases are
potentially life-threatening, so it's important to contact your veterinarian
immediately if you are concerned that your horse could be sick with one of
these viruses.

**Symptoms in people:** Most people with EEE or SLE have no symptoms, but for
those who become sick, symptoms can range from mild flu-like symptoms to
complex neurologic problems and death. Neurologic signs can include arthritis,
respiratory distress, gastrointestinal (stomach) upset, myelitis (spinal cord
inflammation), encephalitis (brain inflammation), retinitis, severe muscular
weakness, Guillain-Barre syndrome, and partial paralysis, shock, or death.

Leptospirosis ( _Leptospira_ spp.)

Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease that can affect people and animals. Many
kinds of animals can carry the bacteria in their urine, including horses.

**How it spreads:** The bacteria that cause leptospirosis spread through the
urine of infected animals, which can get into water or soil and survive there
for weeks to months. People get infected through contact with urine or other
body fluids (except saliva) from infected animals, or through contact with
water, soil, or other materials (such as animal bedding) contaminated with
urine from infected animals.

**Who is at risk:** Leptospirosis occurs worldwide, but is most common in
tropical and subtropical climates. It has been associated with contact with
infected animals and activities in contaminated lakes and rivers, such as
swimming, wading, kayaking, and rafting. It is also a risk for people in
certain jobs that involve contact with animals or their waste, like farmers,
sewer workers, slaughterhouse workers, and veterinarians. People working
directly with horses or cleaning up after them (such as mucking stalls) may be
at risk for leptospirosis.

**Signs in horses:** In horses, leptospirosis is most often associated with
eye problems, such as cloudiness or the eye or uveitis (inflammation in the
eye). It can also cause other symptoms such as fever, stillbirths and
abortions, and kidney failure.

**Symptoms in people:** People with leptospirosis might not have any symptoms,
but those who do will usually become sick within 2 days to 4 weeks of exposure
and can have high fever, headache, chills, muscle aches, vomiting, jaundice,
red eyes, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and rash. A small number of people with
leptospirosis can have more severe disease, such as liver and kidney failure,
hemorrhagic pneumonia, and even death. Early treatment with antibiotics is
important, and can reduce the duration and severity of illness.

More Information

MRSA (Methicillin-Resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ )

 _Staphylococcus aureus_ is a common type of a bacteria normally found on the
skin of people and animals. MRSA is _Staphylococcus aureus_ bacteria that have
become resistant to some antibiotics. MRSA can cause a variety of infections,
including skin infections, pneumonia (lung infection), and other problems.

**How it spreads:** MRSA can spread between people and animals through direct
contact (touching). Even horses that aren't sick can carry MRSA and spread it
to people.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get a MRSA infection.

**Signs in horses:** Horses carrying MRSA might not necessarily show signs,
but MRSA can cause skin and wound infections, respiratory tract infections,
and septic arthritis. Horses are more likely to carry MRSA if they live on a
farm with more than 20 horses.

**Symptoms in people:** Most people with MRSA will carry it without symptoms.
For people who develop a MRSA infection, the most common type is a skin
infection. If left untreated, MRSA can rarely spread to the lungs or
bloodstream and become life-threatening.

More Information

Rabies

Rabies is a deadly neurologic disease caused by a virus that spreads primarily
through bites of infected animals. Though rabies is very rare in horses, it is
still a concern. Horse owners should vaccinate their animals against rabies.

**How it spreads:** Rabies is spread through contact with saliva or
brain/nervous system tissue from an infected animal, usually through scratches
or bites.

**Who is at risk** : Rabies in people and domestic animals is rare in the
United States because of successful animal control and vaccination programs,
but the disease is still found in wild animals such as bats, foxes, raccoons,
and skunks. You or your horse could be at risk for rabies if you come into
contact with an infected animal.

**Signs in horses:** Rabies in horses is very rare. Horses with rabies might
have a variety of signs that rapidly worsen. Most frequently, rabid horses
will have abrupt changes in their behavior (depression, agitation,
aggressiveness) and may develop paralysis. Rabid horses can be very dangerous
and have attacked people.

**Symptoms in people:** Symptoms of rabies in people can appear days to months
after exposure. Once symptoms appear, it is almost always too late for
treatment, so if you have been bitten by an animal, you should wash the wound
immediately and see a doctor right away.

More Information

Ringworm

Ringworm is an infection caused by fungus that can infect the skin, hair, or
nails of people and animals.

**How it spreads:** Ringworm spreads through direct contact with (touching) an
infected animal or person, or from the environment.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get ringworm.

**Signs in horses:** Some horses might not show signs of ringworm infection,
but others can have circular areas of hair loss anywhere on their bodies,
redness, dry skin, depression, and severe dehydration.

**Symptoms in people:** Ringworm can affect skin on almost any part of the
body as well as fingernails and toenails. The symptoms of ringworm often
depend on which part of the body is infected, but they generally include itchy
skin, ring-shaped rash, red, scaly, cracked skin, and hair loss.

More Information

Salmonellosis ( _Salmonella_ spp.)

Salmonellosis is a disease caused by _Salmonella_ bacteria, which are most
commonly spread through contaminated food. _Salmonella_ can also spread from
animals, including horses, to people and between people.

**How it spreads:** _Salmonella_ most often spread to animals and people
through the feces (poop) of infected animals, contaminated food, or the
environment. People can become infected if they don't wash their hands after
touching a horse or its poop, food, toys, or habitat.

**Who is at risk:** Anyone can get a _Salmonella_ infection, but children
younger than age 5, adults 65 years of age and older, and people with weakened
immune systems are more at risk for serious illness. People who are in contact
with horses should be aware that they are at an increased risk for
_Salmonella_ infection.

**Signs in horses:** Horses infected with _Salmonella_ might show no signs of
illness, or they may experience diarrhea, dehydration, or depression. One of
the most common causes of diarrhea in adult horses is from infection with
_Salmonella_ , so if your horse appears sick, call your veterinarian. The
diarrhea and dehydration can be severe and even life threatening.

**Symptoms in people:** People with a _Salmonella_ infection may experience
diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps. Symptoms usually start 6 hours-4 days
after infection and last 4-7 days.

More Information

Tickborne Diseases

Horses are at risk for tickborne infections, including Lyme disease,
tularemia, and anaplasmosis. Horse owners should talk to a veterinarian about
preventing ticks on horses. Treating horses for ticks can reduce the risk of
tickborne diseases for you and your horse.

**How it spreads:** Ticks get infected after biting an infected animal.
Tickborne germs are spread through the bite of an infected tick.

**Who is at risk:** People and horses that spend time in grassy, wooded, or
brushy areas are at risk for tick bites. Horses may have ticks in and around
the ears, around the eyelids, under front legs, between back legs, or around
the tail. Remove ticks from horses promptly or treat your horse for ticks to
reduce disease risk.

**Signs in horses:** Horses infected with a tickborne disease may or may not
show signs of disease. Signs and symptoms range from mild illness to death.

For example, anaplasmosis is caused by the bacteria _Anaplasma
phagocytophilum_. In horses, signs and symptoms can include fever; depression;
lack of appetite; swelling of limbs, the underside of the chest, or abdomen;
and discoloration of mucous membranes.

**Symptoms in people:** Symptoms of tickborne diseases in people can vary, but
usually include fever, chills, body aches, and sometimes a rash. Some
tickborne diseases can be very serious and even deadly. See your healthcare
provider if you have been in tick habitat or been bitten by a tick and develop
any of these symptoms.

More Information

![Blonde woman touches thoroughbred horse](/healthypets/images/pets/blonde-
woman-touching-horse.jpg)

## How to stay healthy around horses

Before you interact with horses, be aware that horses can sometimes carry
germs that can make people sick, even when they appear healthy and clean.
Always get routine veterinary care for your horse to keep it healthy and to
prevent infectious diseases.

### Wash your hands

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and running water: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After contact with horses or their equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After doing chores such as cleaning stalls, brushing your horse, or cleaning equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After riding your horse or touching horse poop, urine, saliva, or blood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before you eat or drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults should supervise hand washing for children under 5 years of age.

Use hand sanitizer if soap and water are not readily available. Be sure to
have hand sanitizer readily available near the horse's stall to encourage
others to use it before handling the horse or its equipment.

![A girl on a gray horse in the forest in
Norway](/healthypets/images/pets/woman-on-gray-horse.jpg)

### Prevent horse bites and kicks

Kicks and bites from horses can cause serious injury and sometimes illness.
Bites and kicks can spread germs, even if the wound does not seem deep or
serious.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Be aware of your surroundings and know where the horse is at all times.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Be cautious when approaching a horse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Approach a horse's head from the side where they can see you better--not from the front.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch their ears--if the ears are flattened, the horse might bite.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Don't stand directly behind a horse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Don't approach a horse from its rear end.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Don't leave young children unsupervised around horses.

**What to do if you are bitten or injured by a horse**

If you are injured by a horse, you should:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wash wounds with warm, soapy water immediately.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seek medical attention if: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You don't know the vaccination status of the horse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * The horse might have been exposed to a rabid animal. Make sure a veterinarian checks the horse if it becomes sick or dies within 6 months of a bite from another animal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The horse appears sick or is acting unusual.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The wound or injury is serious (uncontrolled bleeding, unable to move, extreme pain, muscle or bone is showing, or the bite is over a joint).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The wound or site of injury becomes red, painful, warm, or swollen (especially if the person bitten is 5 years of age or younger, 65 years of age or older, pregnant, or has a weakened immune system.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Your or your child's last tetanus shot was more than 5 years ago.

![Kids on Horses Brother and Sister Horseback
Riding](/healthypets/images/pets/kids-riding-horses.jpg)

## How to keep horses healthy

Keeping your horse healthy helps to keep you and your family healthy. To learn
how to stay healthy around horses, visit the Healthy People section.

### Before choosing a horse

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Learn about the different types of horses and temperaments before you bring one home.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find out what types of horses are suitable for your family. Some horses, such as young or untrained horses, might not be suitable for young children or people with very little riding experience.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research how to properly care for your horse. Ask a veterinarian about the proper food, care, and stall or pasture environment for the horse you are selecting.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Be aware of the potential for your horse to spread germs to people and other animals.

### How to choose a horse

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Match the horse's attitude, temperament, size, and training or activity level with: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Your family's time and ability to train and care for them
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The purpose for which you are buying the horse (for example, showing, trail riding, teaching)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Consider having the horse thoroughly examined by a veterinarian before purchase to make sure the animal is healthy and is not carrying diseases that could pass to people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you are bringing the horse into a herd setting, you might need to keep the horse separate for a short time to prevent any diseases from spreading to your other horses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Some general guidelines for choosing to separate a newly purchased horse are if: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * It has an unknown medical history
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * It is coming from an unknown source, sale barn, or horse show where it has been in contact with unknown horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * It traveled a long distance and is stressed or showing signs of disease, such as a cough, runny nose, swollen lymph nodes, fever or diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For more information on separating newly acquired horses, contact a veterinarian.

![Woman cleaning stable.](/healthypets/images/pets/cleaning-stable.jpg)

### How to house your horse

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * House horses in a stall, out on pasture, or in a combination of both. If they are out on pasture, they should have some kind of shelter in case of bad weather.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Make sure your horse always has access to clean water, whether in a stall or out in a pasture.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clean horse stalls daily to prevent build-up of feces (poop) that could spread disease to your horse or to you and your family.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Dispose of poop, soiled bedding, and uneaten food properly.

### Monitor your horse's health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Have your veterinarian visit your horse's stall often to care for and check your horse's health.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Talk to your veterinarian about vaccinations for rabies, West Nile, and other viruses causing equine encephalitis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If possible, keep horses in an enclosed area at night to decrease their exposure to wild animals that could be carrying rabies and other diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use feeders that are above the ground to keep wild animals away from your horse and your horse's food.

## Selecting and caring for a horse

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Selecting a Horse pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]external icon  
American Veterinary Medical Association

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bringing Horses into the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Get-A-DVMexternal icon  
American Association of Equine Practitioners

## Staying healthy around horses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Activity Card for Kids: Horseback Riding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Heads Up: Preventing Concussion

## Diseases associated with horses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Salmonellosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Brucellosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cryptosporidiosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * St. Louis Encephalitis (SLE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tickborne diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Leptospirosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MRSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rabies

## Guidance and recommendations

Compendium of Measures to Prevent Disease Associated with Animals in Public
Settings, 2017external icon

Page last reviewed: April 17, 2019, 12:00 AM

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home Healthy Pets, Healthy People

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About Pets & People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pets & Other Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Dogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Farm Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Backyard Poultry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ferrets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Reptiles and Amphibiansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Handling of Pet Reptiles & Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rodents Used for Pet Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Small Mammalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Salmonella_ from Small Mammals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pet Rodents 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Wildlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cat-Scratch Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * _E. coli_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * _Salmonella_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Groups & Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Teachers & Daycare Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Exhibit Visitors & Managers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infants and Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * US Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Antibiotic Resistance in Pets and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * How to Stay Healthy around Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Stay Healthy Around Small Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Stay Healthy Around Pet Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Stay Safe and Healthy While Feeding Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Checking Pets for Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Pet Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Healthy Families and Flocks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pet Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pet Food Safety _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Trouble with Tiny Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trouble with Tiny Turtles _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pet Safety in Emergenciesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pets in Evacuation Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pet Safety in Emergencies _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pet Disaster Preparedness Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pets & Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Digital Press Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Connect With Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * New & Noteworthy

![Badge for One Health](/healthypets/images/one-health-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

