Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000032.htm    
                                Description: Some cancer treatments and medicines can cause dry mouth. Take good care of your mouth during your cancer treatment. Follow the measures outlined below.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dry mouth during cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000032.htm

# Dry mouth during cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some cancer treatments and medicines can cause dry mouth. Take good care of
your mouth during your cancer treatment. Follow the measures outlined below.

## What to Expect

Symptoms of dry mouth include:

      * Mouth sores
      * Thick and stringy saliva
      * Cuts or cracks in your lips, or at the corners of your mouth
      * Your dentures may no longer fit well, causing sores on the gums
      * Thirstiness
      * Difficulty swallowing or talking
      * Loss of your sense of taste
      * Soreness or pain in the tongue and mouth
      * Cavities (dental caries)
      * Gum disease 

## Take Care of Your Mouth

Not caring for your mouth during cancer treatment can lead to an increase in
bacteria in your mouth. The bacteria can cause infection in your mouth, which
can spread to other parts of your body.

      * Brush your teeth and gums 2 to 3 times a day for 2 to 3 minutes each time.
      * Use a toothbrush with soft bristles.
      * Use toothpaste with fluoride.
      * Let your toothbrush air dry between brushings.
      * If toothpaste makes your mouth sore, brush with a solution of 1 teaspoon (5 grams) of salt mixed with 4 cups (1 liter) of water. Pour a small amount into a clean cup to dip your toothbrush into each time you brush.
      * Floss gently once a day. 

Rinse your mouth 5 or 6 times a day for 1 to 2 minutes each time. Use one of
the following solutions when you rinse:

      * One teaspoon (5 grams) of salt in 4 cups (1 liter) of water
      * One teaspoon (5 grams) of baking soda in 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of water
      * Half teaspoon (2.5 grams) salt and 2 tablespoons (30 grams) baking soda in 4 cups (1 liter) of water 

DO NOT use mouth rinses that have alcohol in them. You may use an
antibacterial rinse 2 to 4 times a day for gum disease.

Other tips for taking care of your mouth include:

      * Avoiding foods or drinks that have a lot of sugar in them that may cause tooth decay
      * Using lip care products to keep your lips from getting dry and cracking
      * Sipping water to ease mouth dryness
      * Eating sugar-free candy or chewing sugar-free gum 

Talk with your dentist about:

      * Solutions to replace minerals in your teeth
      * Saliva substitutes
      * Drugs that help your salivary glands make more saliva 

## Diet

You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up. Ask your
health care provider about liquid food supplements that can help you meet your
caloric needs and keep up your strength.

To make eating easier:

      * Choose foods that you like.
      * Eat foods with gravy, broth, or sauce to make them easier to chew and swallow.
      * Eat small meals and eat more often.
      * Cut your food into small pieces to make it easier to chew.
      * Ask your doctor or dentist if artificial saliva might help you.

Drink 8 to 12 cups (2 to 3 liters) of liquid each day (not including coffee,
tea, or other drinks that have caffeine).

      * Drink liquids with your meals.
      * Sip cool drinks during the day.
      * Keep a glass of water next to your bed at night. Drink when you get up to use the bathroom or other times you wake up. 

DO NOT drink alcohol or beverages that contain alcohol. They will bother your
throat.

Avoid foods that are very spicy, that contain a lot of acid, or that are very
hot or very cold.

If pills are hard to swallow, ask your provider if it is OK to crush your
pills. (Some pills do not work if they are crushed.) If it is OK, crush them
up and add them to some ice cream or another soft food.

## Alternative Names

Chemotherapy - dry mouth; Radiation therapy - dry mouth; Transplant - dry
mouth; Transplantation - dry mouth

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Chemotherapy and you: support for people
with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/chemotherapy-and-
you.pdf. Updated May 2007. Accessed February 16, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Oral complications of chemotherapy and
head/neck radiation. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-effects/mouth-
throat/oral-complications-hp-pdq. Updated December 16, 2016. Accessed February
16, 2018.

Sideras K, Hallemeier CL, Loprinzi CL. Oral complications. In: Niederhuber JE,
Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Read More

      * Bone marrow transplant
      * Mastectomy
      * Oral cancer
      * Throat or larynx cancer

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal radiation - discharge
      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Bleeding during cancer treatment
      * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
      * Brain radiation - discharge
      * Breast radiation - discharge
      * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
      * Chest radiation - discharge
      * Dementia and driving
      * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
      * Dementia - daily care
      * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
      * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
      * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
      * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
      * Safe eating during cancer treatment
      * Swallowing problems 

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer
      * Dry Mouth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

