Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000914.htm    
                                Description: Many people who go through cancer treatment worry about hair loss. While it may be a side effect of some treatments, it does not happen to everyone. Some treatments are less likely to make your hair fall    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coping with cancer - hair loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000914.htm

# Coping with cancer - hair loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people who go through cancer treatment worry about hair loss. While it
may be a side effect of some treatments, it does not happen to everyone. Some
treatments are less likely to make your hair fall out. Even with the same
drug, some people lose their hair and some do not. Your health care provider
can tell you how likely it is that your treatment will make you lose your
hair.

## Why Cancer Treatments can Cause Hair Loss

Many chemotherapy drugs attack fast-growing cells. This is because cancer
cells divide rapidly. Since the cells in hair follicles also grow rapidly,
cancer drugs that go after cancer cells often attack hair cells at the same
time. With chemo, your hair might get thinner, but not all fall out. You also
may lose your eyelashes, eyebrows, and pubic hair.

Like chemo, radiation goes after fast-growing cells. While chemo can cause
hair loss all over your body, radiation only affects the hair in the area
being treated.

## What to Expect

Hair loss mostly happens 1 to 3 weeks after the first chemo or radiation
treatment.

The hair on your head may come out in clumps. You will probably see hair in
your brush, in the shower, and on your pillow.

## Tips to Deal with Hair Loss

If your provider has told you treatment may cause hair loss, you might want to
cut your hair short before your first treatment. This could make losing your
hair less shocking and upsetting. If you decide to shave your head, use an
electric razor and be careful not to cut your scalp.

Some people get wigs and some cover their heads with scarves or hats. Some
people do not wear anything on their heads. What you decide to do is up to
you.

Wig options:

      * If you think you will want to have a wig, go to the salon before your hair falls out so they can set you up with a wig that matches your hair color. Your provider may have names of salons that make wigs for people with cancer.
      * Try different wig styles to decide what you like best.
      * If you want, you can also try a different hair color. The stylist can work help you find a color that looks good with your skin tone.
      * Find out if the cost of the wig is covered by your insurance.

Other suggestions:

      * Scarves, hats, and turbans are comfortable options.
      * Ask your provider if cold cap therapy is right for you. With cold cap therapy, the scalp is cooled. This causes the hair follicles go into a state of rest. As a result, hair loss may be limited.
      * Wear soft material next to your skin.
      * On sunny days, remember to protect your scalp with a hat, scarf, and sunblock.
      * In cold weather, do not forget a hat or head scarf to keep you warm.

## Care for Thinning Hair

If you lose some, but not all of your hair, there are many ways you can be
gentle with the hair you have.

      * Wash your hair two times a week or less.
      * Use gentle shampoo and conditioner.
      * Pat your hair dry with a towel. Avoid rubbing or pulling.
      * Avoid products with strong chemicals. This includes permanents and hair colors.
      * Put away things that will put stress on your hair. This includes curling irons and brush rollers.
      * If you blow-dry your hair, put the setting at cool or warm, not hot.

## How You May Feel About Losing Your Hair

It may take a while to adjust to not having hair. Lost hair may be the most
visible sign of your cancer treatment.

      * If you feel self-conscious about going out in public, ask a close friend or family member to go with you the first few times.
      * Think ahead about how much you want to tell people. If someone asks questions you do not want to answer, you have the right to cut the conversation short. You might say, "This is a hard subject for me to talk about."
      * A cancer support group might help you feel less alone knowing that other people are going through this too. 

## Your New Hair

Hair often grows back 2 to 3 months after your last chemo or radiation
treatment. It may grow back a different color. It may grow back curly instead
of straight. Over time, your hair may go back to the way it was before.

When your hair starts to grow back, be gentle with it so it can get strong
again. Consider a short style that is easy to care for. Continue to avoid
things like harsh dyes or curling irons that can damage your hair.

## Alternative Names

Cancer treatment - alopecia; Chemotherapy - hair loss; Radiation - hair loss

## References

American Cancer Society website. Hair loss.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/hair-loss.html. Updated June 8, 2015. Accessed December 17, 2018.

American Cancer Society website. Cooling caps (scalp hypothermia) to reduce
hair loss. www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/hair-loss/cold-caps.html. Updated April 19, 2017. Accessed December
17, 2018.

Pappas-Taffer L, Lee K, Higgins HW, Robinson-Bostom L, McDonald CJ.
Dermatologic toxicities of anticancer therapy. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage
JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/19/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer
      * Hair Loss

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

