Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000826.htm    
                                Description: Certain types of cancer treatments can cause hot flashes and night sweats. Hot flashes are when your body suddenly feels hot. In some cases, hot flashes can make you sweat. Night sweats are hot flashes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer treatment: dealing with hot flashes and night sweats

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000826.htm

# Cancer treatment: dealing with hot flashes and night sweats

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Certain types of cancer treatments can cause hot flashes and night sweats. Hot
flashes are when your body suddenly feels hot. In some cases, hot flashes can
make you sweat. Night sweats are hot flashes with sweating at night.

Hot flashes and night sweats are more common in women, but they can also occur
in men. Some people continue to have these side effects after cancer
treatment.

Hot flashes and night sweats can be unpleasant, but there are treatments that
can help.

## Causes

People who are treated for breast cancer or prostate cancer are likely to have
hot flashes and night sweats during or after treatment.

In women, some cancer treatments can cause them to go into early menopause.
Hot flashes and night sweats are common symptoms of menopause. These
treatments include some types of:

      * Radiation
      * Chemotherapy
      * Hormone treatment
      * Surgery to remove your ovaries 

In men, surgery to remove one or both testicles or treatment with certain
hormones can cause these symptoms.

Hot flashes and night sweats also may be caused by some medicines:

      * Aromatase inhibitors. Used as hormone therapy for some women with certain types of breast cancer.
      * Opioids. Strong pain relievers given to some people with cancer.
      * Tamoxifen. A drug used to treat breast cancer in both women and men. It is also used to prevent cancer in some women.
      * Tricyclic antidepressants. A type of antidepressant drug.
      * Steroids. Used to reduce swelling. They also may be used to treat some cancers. 

## Medicines That Can Help

There are a few kinds of medicines that can help ease hot flashes and night
sweats. But they also may cause side effects or have certain risks. Talk with
your health care provider about your options. If one medicine does not work
for you, your provider may try another.

      * Hormone therapy (HT). HT works well to reduce symptoms. But women need to use caution with HT. Also, women who have had breast cancer should not take estrogen. Men can use estrogen or progesterone to treat these symptoms after treatment for prostate cancer.
      * Antidepressants.
      * Clonidine (a type of blood pressure medicine).
      * Anticonvulsants.

## Other Treatment Options

Some other types of treatments may help with hot flashes and night sweats.

      *  **Relaxation techniques or stress reduction.** Learning how to decrease stress and anxiety may help relieve hot flashes in some people.
      *  **Hypnosis.** During hypnosis, a therapist can help you relax and focus on feeling cool. Hypnosis also may help you lower your heart rate, lessen stress, and balance your body temperature, which can help reduce hot flashes.
      *  **Acupuncture.** Although some studies have found that acupuncture can help with hot flashes, others have not found a benefit. If you are interested in acupuncture, ask your provider if it might be an option for you. 

## Home Treatment for Night Sweats

You can also try some simple things at home to help relieve night sweats.

      * Open windows and keep fans running to get air moving through your home.
      * Wear loose-fitting cotton clothing.
      * Try breathing deeply and slowly to help reduce symptoms. 

## References

American Cancer Society website. Premature menopause.
www.cancer.org/content/cancer/en/treatment/treatments-and-side-
effects/physical-side-effects/fertility-and-sexual-side-effects/sexuality-for-
women-with-cancer/problems.html. Updated January 12, 2017. Accessed August 22,
2018.

Kadakia KC, Loprinzi CL. Hot flashes. In: Berger AM, Shuster JL, Von Roenn JH,
eds. _Principles and Practice of Palliative Care and Supportive Oncology_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2013:chap 9.

National Cancer Institute website. Hot flashes and night sweats (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-
effects/sexuality-fertility-women/hot-flashes-hp-pdq. Updated March 14, 2018.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

