Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000917.htm    
                                Description: If you or a loved one has cancer, you may need help with certain practical, financial, and emotional needs. Dealing with cancer can take a toll on your time, emotions, and budget. Support services can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coping with cancer - finding the support you need

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000917.htm

# Coping with cancer - finding the support you need

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you or a loved one has cancer, you may need help with certain practical,
financial, and emotional needs. Dealing with cancer can take a toll on your
time, emotions, and budget. Support services can help you manage parts of your
life affected by cancer. Learn about the types of support you can get along
with groups that can help.

## Home-Care Services

You may be able to get some care at home instead of at a hospital or clinic.
Being around friends and family may help you feel more comfortable during
treatment. Getting care at home may ease some of the pressures on caregivers,
yet increase others. Ask your health care provider or social worker about
services for care at home. Also check with the agencies and groups listed
below.

Home-care services may include:

      * Clinical care from a registered nurse
      * Home visits from a physical therapist or social worker
      * Help with personal care like bathing or dressing
      * Help running errands or making meals 

Your health plan may help cover the cost of short-term home care. Medicare and
Medicaid often cover some home-care costs. You may have to pay for some of the
costs.

## Lodging and Travel Services

You may be able to get help with travel to and from your appointments. If you
need to travel a long distance to receive care, you may be able to get help to
cover the cost of plane fare. The National Patient Travel Center lists
organizations that offer free air travel for people who need long-distance
cancer services. Other groups offer lodging for people getting cancer
treatment far from home.

## Financial Services

Talk with your social worker about programs that can help cover the costs of
cancer. Most hospitals have financial counselors who might be able to help.

      * Some nonprofit organizations help cover the cost of treatment.
      * Many drug companies have patient assistance programs. These programs provide discounts or free medication.
      * Many hospitals offer programs for people who do not have insurance, or whose insurance does not cover the full cost of care.
      * Medicaid provides health insurance for people with low incomes. Because it is state-run, the level of coverage depends on where you live.
      * You may qualify for financial help from Social Security if you have advanced cancer. 

## Counseling Services

Counseling can help you cope with difficult feelings like anger, fear, or
sadness. A counselor can help you address issues with your family, self-image,
or work. Look for a counselor who has experience working with people with
cancer.

Your health plan may help cover the cost of counseling, but you may be limited
in who you can see. Other options include:

      * Some hospitals and cancer centers offer free counseling
      * Online counseling
      * Group counseling often costs less than one-on-one services
      * Your local health department may provide cancer counseling
      * Some clinics bill patients based on what they can pay
      * Some medical schools offer free counseling 

## Where to Get Help

Here is a list of groups for people with cancer and their families and the
services they provide.

American Cancer Society -- www.cancer.org/treatment/support-programs-and-
services.html:

      * The society offers online counseling and support groups as well as other emotional support programs.
      * Some local chapters may provide home care equipment or can find local groups that do.
      * Road to Recovery offers rides to and from treatment.
      * Hope Lodge offers a free place to stay for people getting treatment far from home. 

CancerCare -- www.cancercare.org:

      * Counseling and support
      * Financial assistance
      * Help paying copayments for medical care 

Eldercare Locator -- eldercare.acl.gov/Public/Index.aspx helps connect older
people with cancer and their families with local support services, which
include:

      * Caregiver support
      * Financial help
      * Home repair and modification
      * Housing options
      * Home-care services 

Joe's House -- www.joeshouse.org helps people with cancer and their families
find places to stay near cancer treatment centers.

National Agency for Home Care and Hospice -- agencylocator.nahc.org connects
people with cancer and their families with local home care and hospice
services.

Patient Advocate Foundation -- www.patientadvocate.org offers help with
copayments.

Ronald McDonald House Charities -- www.rmhc.org provides lodging for children
with cancer and their families near treatment centers.

RxAssist -- www.rxassist.org provides a list of free and low-cost programs to
help cover prescription costs.

## Alternative Names

Cancer support - home care services; Cancer support - travel services; Cancer
support - financial services; Cancer support - counseling

## References

American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) website. Counseling.
www.cancer.net/coping-with-cancer/finding-support-and-information/counseling.
Updated April 2018. Accessed December 17, 2018.

American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) website. Financial resources.
www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/financial-considerations/financial-
resources. Updated April 2018. Accessed December 17, 2018.

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Finding health care services.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/managing-care/services#homecare. UpdatedÂ August
25, 2017. Accessed December 17, 2018.

US Social Security Administration website. Compassionate allowances.
www.ssa.gov/compassionateallowances. Accessed December 17, 2018.

## Review Date 10/19/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

