Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000099.htm    
                                Description: The pituitary gland is often referred to as the &quot;master gland&quot; of the body, since it regulates many activities of other endocrine glands. Located above the pituitary gland is the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Pituitary gland

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000099.htm

# Pituitary gland

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200093_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200093_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The pituitary gland is often referred to as the "master gland" of the body,
since it regulates many activities of other endocrine glands. Located above
the pituitary gland is the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus decides which
hormones the pituitary should release by sending it either hormonal or
electrical messages.

In response to hormonal messages from the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland
releases the following hormones:

      * GH (growth hormone) - increases size of muscle and bone
      * THS (thyroid stimulating hormone) - stimulates the thyroid gland to release T3 and T4 to stimulate metabolism in other cells throughout the body
      * FSH (follicle stimulating hormone) - stimulates ovarian follicle production in women; stimulates sperm production in men
      * LH (luteinizing hormone) - stimulates ovaries to produce estrogen in women; stimulates sperm production in men
      * Prolactin - stimulates breast tissue in nursing mothers to produce milk
      * ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone) - causes the adrenal glands to produce important substances that have properties similar to steroids 

In response to electrical messages from the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland
releases the following hormones:

      * ADH (antidiuretic hormone) - stimulates the kidneys to reabsorb fluid and produce less urine
      * Oxytocin - initiates labor, uterine contractions and milk ejection in mothers 

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pituitary Disorders
      * Pituitary Tumors

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

