Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001167.htm    
                                Description: Pituitary apoplexy is a rare, but serious condition of the pituitary gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pituitary apoplexy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001167.htm

# Pituitary apoplexy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pituitary apoplexy is a rare, but serious condition of the pituitary gland.

## Causes

The pituitary is a small gland at the base of the brain. The pituitary
produces many of the hormones that control essential body processes.

Pituitary apoplexy can be caused by bleeding into the pituitary or by blocked
blood flow to the pituitary. Apoplexy means bleeding into an organ or loss of
blood flow to an organ.

Pituitary apoplexy is commonly caused by bleeding inside a noncancerous
(benign) tumor of the pituitary. These tumors are very common and are often
not diagnosed. The pituitary is damaged when the tumor suddenly enlarges. It
either bleeds into the pituitary or blocks blood supply to the pituitary. The
larger the tumor, the higher the risk for future pituitary apoplexy.

When pituitary bleeding occurs in a woman during or right after childbirth, it
is called Sheehan syndrome. This is a very rare condition.

Risk factors for pituitary apoplexy in non-pregnant people without a tumor
include:

      * Bleeding disorders
      * Diabetes
      * Head injury
      * Radiation to the pituitary gland
      * Use of a breathing machine 

Pituitary apoplexy in these situations is very rare.

## Symptoms

Pituitary apoplexy usually has a short period of symptoms (acute), which can
be life threatening. Symptoms often include:

      * Severe headache (worst of your life)
      * Paralysis of the eye muscles, causing double vision (ophthalmoplegia) or problems opening an eyelid
      * Loss of peripheral vision or loss of all vision in one or both eyes
      * Low blood pressure, nausea, loss of appetite, and vomiting from acute adrenal insufficiency
      * Personality changes due to sudden narrowing of one of the arteries in the brain (anterior cerebral artery) 

Less commonly, pituitary dysfunction may appear more slowly. In Sheehan
syndrome, for example, the first symptom may be a failure to produce milk
caused by a lack of the hormone prolactin.

Over time, problems with other pituitary hormones may develop, causing
symptoms of the following conditions:

      * Growth hormone deficiency
      * Adrenal insufficiency (if not already present or treated)
      * Hypogonadism (body's sex glands produce little or no hormones)
      * Hypothyroidism (thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone) 

In rare cases, when the posterior (back part) of the pituitary is involved,
symptoms may include:

      * Failure of the uterus to contract to give birth to a baby (in women)
      * Failure to produce breast milk (in women)
      * Frequent urination and severe thirst (diabetes insipidus) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Eye exams
      * MRI or CT scan

Blood tests will be done to check levels of:

      * ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone)
      * Cortisol
      * FSH (follicle-stimulating hormone)
      * Growth hormone
      * LH (luteinizing hormone)
      * Prolactin
      * TSH (thyroid-stimulating hormone)
      * Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)Â 
      * Sodium
      * Osmolarity in blood and urine 

## Treatment

Acute apoplexy may require surgery to relieve pressure on the pituitary and
improve vision symptoms. Severe cases need emergency surgery. If vision is not
affected, surgery is often not necessary.

Immediate treatment with adrenal replacement hormones (glucocorticoids) may be
needed. These hormones are often given through the vein (by IV). Other
hormones may eventually be replaced, including:

      * Growth hormone
      * Sex hormones (estrogen/testosterone)
      * Thyroid hormone
      * Vasopressin (ADH) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Acute pituitary apoplexy can be life threatening. The outlook is good for
people who have long-term (chronic) pituitary deficiency that is diagnosed and
treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications of untreated pituitary apoplexy can include:

      * Adrenal crisis (condition that occurs when there is not enough cortisol, a hormone produced by the adrenal glands)
      * Vision loss 

If other missing hormones are not replaced, symptoms of hypothyroidism and
hypogonadism may develop, including infertility.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any symptoms of chronic pituitary
insufficiency.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of acute pituitary apoplexy, including:

      * Eye muscle weakness or vision loss
      * Sudden, severe headache
      * Low blood pressure (which can cause fainting)
      * Nausea
      * Vomiting 

If you develop these symptoms and you have already been diagnosed with a
pituitary tumor, seek medical help right away.

## Alternative Names

Pituitary infarction; Pituitary tumor apoplexy

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Hannoush ZC, Weiss RE. Pituitary apoplexy. In: Feingold KR, Anawalt B, Boyce
A, et al, eds. _Endotext [Internet]_. South Dartmouth, MA: MDText.com. 2000-.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK279125. Updated April 22, 2018. Accessed May 20,
2019.

Melmed S, Kleinberg D. Pituitary masses and tumors. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![Pituitary
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryTumor_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

