Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000336.htm    
                                Description: A prolactinoma is a noncancerous (benign) pituitary tumor that produces a hormone called prolactin. This results in too much prolactin in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prolactinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000336.htm

# Prolactinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A prolactinoma is a noncancerous (benign) pituitary tumor that produces a
hormone called prolactin. This results in too much prolactin in the blood.

## Causes

Prolactin is a hormone that triggers the breasts to produce milk (lactation).

Prolactinoma is the most common type of pituitary tumor (adenoma) that
produces a hormone. It makes up about 30% of all pituitary adenomas. Almost
all pituitary tumors are noncancerous (benign). Prolactinoma may occur as part
of an inherited condition called multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1).

Prolactinomas occur most commonly in people under age 40. They are more common
in women than in men, but are rare in children.

At least half of all prolactinomas are very small (less than 1 centimeter or
3/8 of an inch in diameter). These small tumors occur more often in women and
are called microprolactinomas.

Larger tumors are more common in men. They tend to occur at an older age. The
tumor can grow to a large size before symptoms appear. Tumors larger than 3/8
inch (1 cm) in diameter are called macroprolactinomas.

The tumor is often detected at an earlier stage in women than in men because
of irregular menstrual periods.

## Symptoms

In women:

      * Abnormal milk flow from the breast in a woman who is not pregnant or nursing (galactorrhea)
      * Breast tenderness
      * Decreased sexual interest
      * Decreased peripheral vision
      * Headache
      * Infertility
      * Stopping of menstruation not related to menopause, or irregular menstruation
      * Vision changes 

In men:

      * Decreased sexual interest
      * Decreased peripheral vision
      * Enlargement of breast tissue (gynecomastia)
      * Headache
      * Erection problemsÂ (impotence) 
      * Infertility
      * Vision changes 

Symptoms caused by pressure from a larger tumor may include:

      * Headache
      * Lethargy
      * Nasal drainage
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Problems with the sense of smell
      * Sinus pain or pressure
      * Vision changes, such as double vision, drooping eyelids or visual field loss 

There may be no symptoms, especially in men.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. You will also be asked about medicines and substances you are
taking.

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Pituitary MRI or brain CT scan
      * Testosterone level in men
      * Prolactin level
      * Thyroid function tests
      * Other tests of pituitary function

## Treatment

Medicine is usually successful in treating prolactinoma. Some people have to
take these medicines for life. Other people can stop taking the medicines
after a few years, especially if their tumor was small when it was discovered
or has disappeared from the MRI. But there is a risk that the tumor may grow
and produce prolactin again, especially if it was a large tumor.

A large prolactinoma can sometimes get larger during pregnancy.

Surgery may be done for any of the following:

      * Symptoms are severe, such as a sudden worsening of vision
      * You are not able to tolerate the medicines to treat the tumor
      * The tumor does not respond to medicines

Radiation is usually only used in people with prolactinoma that continues to
grow or gets worse after both medicine and surgery have been tried. Radiation
may be given in the form of:

      * Conventional radiation
      * Gamma knife (stereotactic radiosurgery) \-- a type of radiation therapy thatÂ focuses high-powered x-rays on a small area in the brain. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is usually excellent, but depends on the success of medicalÂ
treatment or surgery. Getting tested to check whether the tumor has returned
after treatmentÂ is important.

Treatment for prolactinoma may change the levels of other hormones in the
body, especially if surgery or radiationÂ is performed.

High levels of estrogen or testosterone may be involved in the growth of a
prolactinoma. Women with prolactinomas should be followed closely during
pregnancy. They should discuss this tumor with their provider before taking
birth control pills with a higher than usual estrogen content.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you have any symptoms of prolactinoma.

If you have had a prolactinoma in the past, call your provider for a general
follow-up, or ifÂ your symptoms return.

## Alternative Names

Adenoma - secreting; Prolactin - secreting adenoma of the pituitary

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Bronstein MD. Disorders of prolactin secretion and prolactinomas. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

Tirosh A, Shimon I. Current approach to treatments for prolactinomas. _Minerva
Endocrinol_. 2016;41(3):316-323. PMID: 26399371
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26399371.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pituitary
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryTumor_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

