Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000704.htm    
                                Description: A pituitary tumor is an abnormal growth in the pituitary gland. The pituitary is a small gland at the base of the brain. It regulates the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pituitary tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000704.htm

# Pituitary tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pituitary tumor is an abnormal growth in the pituitary gland. The pituitary
is a small gland at the base of the brain. It regulates the body's balance of
many hormones.

## Causes

Most pituitary tumors are noncancerous (benign). Up to 20% of people have
pituitary tumors. Many of these tumors do not cause symptoms and are never
diagnosed during the person's lifetime.

The pituitary is part of the endocrine system. The pituitary helps control the
release of hormones from other endocrine glands, such as the thyroid, sex
glands (testes or ovaries), and adrenal glands. The pituitary also releases
hormones that directly affect body tissues, such as bones and the breast milk
glands. The pituitary hormones include:

      * Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)
      * Growth hormone (GH)
      * Prolactin
      * Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)
      * Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) 

![Pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200093t.gif)Watch
this video about:Pituitary gland

As a pituitary tumor grows, the normal hormone-releasing cells of the
pituitary may be damaged. This results in the pituitary gland not producing
enough of its hormones. This condition is called hypopituitarism.

The causes of pituitary tumors are unknown. Some tumors are caused by
hereditary disorders such asÂ multiple endocrine neoplasia I (MEN I).

The pituitary gland can be affected by other brain tumors that develop in the
same part of the brain (skull base), resulting in similar symptoms.

## Symptoms

Some pituitary tumors produce too much of one or more hormones. As a result,
symptoms of one or more of the following conditions can occur:

      * Hyperthyroidism (thyroid gland makes too much of its hormones; this is an extremely rare condition of pituitary tumors)
      * Cushing syndrome (body has a higher than normal level of the hormone cortisol)
      * Gigantism (abnormal growth due to higher than normal level of growth hormone during childhood) or acromegaly (higher than normal level of growth hormone in adults)
      * Nipple discharge and irregular or absent menstrual periods in women
      * Decreased sexual function in men 

Symptoms caused by pressure from a larger pituitary tumor may include:

      * Changes in vision such as double vision, visual field loss (loss of peripheral vision), drooping eyelids or changes in color vision.
      * Headache.
      * Lack of energy.
      * Nasal drainage of clear, salty fluid.
      * Nausea and vomiting.
      * Problems with the sense of smell.
      * In rare cases, these symptoms occur suddenly and can be severe (pituitary apoplexy).

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical examination. The provider
will note any problems with double vision and visual field, such as a loss of
side (peripheral) vision or the ability to see in certain areas.

The exam will check for signs of too much cortisol (Cushing syndrome), too
much growth hormone (acromegaly), or too much prolactin (prolactinoma).

Tests to check endocrine function may be ordered, including:

      * Cortisol levels --Â dexamethasone suppression test, urine cortisol test, salivary cortisol test
      * FSH level
      * Insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) level
      * LHlevel
      * Prolactin level
      * Testosterone/estradiol levels
      * Thyroid hormone levels --Â free T4 test, TSH test

Tests that help confirm the diagnosis include the following:

      * Visual fields
      * MRI of head

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the tumor is often needed, especially if the tumor is
pressing on the nerves that control vision (optic nerves).

Most of the time, pituitary tumors can be surgically removed through the nose
and sinuses. If the tumor cannot be removed this way, it is removed through
the skull.

Radiation therapy may be used to shrink the tumorÂ in people who cannot have
surgery. It may also be used if the tumor returns after surgery.

In some cases, medicines are prescribed to shrink certain types of tumors.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on pituitary tumors:

      * National Cancer Institute -- www.cancer.gov/types/pituitary
      * Pituitary Network Association -- pituitary.org
      * The Pituitary Society -- www.pituitarysociety.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the tumor can be surgically removed, the outlook is fair to good, depending
on whether the entire tumor is removed.

## Possible Complications

The most serious complication is blindness. This can occur if the optic nerve
is seriously damaged.

The tumor or its removal may cause lifelong hormone imbalances. The affected
hormones may need to be replaced, and you may need to take medicine for the
rest of your life.

Tumors and surgery can sometimes damage the posterior pituitary (back part of
the gland). This can lead to diabetes insipidus, a condition with symptoms of
frequent urination and extreme thirst.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop any symptoms of a pituitary tumor.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - pituitary; Pituitary adenoma

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![The pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17227t.jpg)Pituitary gland

## References

Dorsey JF, Salinas RD, Dang M, et al. Cancer of the central nervous system.
In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
63.

Melmed S, Kleinberg D. Pituitary masses and tumors. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pituitary
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryTumor_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

