Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000340.htm    
                                Description: Pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor of adrenal gland tissue. It results in the release of too much epinephrine and norepinephrine, hormones that control heart rate, metabolism, and blood pressure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pheochromocytoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000340.htm

# Pheochromocytoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor of adrenal gland tissue. It results in the
release of too much epinephrine and norepinephrine, hormones that control
heart rate, metabolism, and blood pressure.

## Causes

Pheochromocytoma may occur as a single tumor or as more than one growth. It
usually develops in the center (medulla) of one or both adrenal glands. The
adrenal glands are two triangle-shaped glands. One gland is located on top of
each kidney. In rare cases, a pheochromocytoma occurs outside the adrenal
gland. When it does, it is usually somewhere else in the abdomen.

Very few pheochromocytomas are cancerous.

The tumors may occur at any age, but they are most common from early to mid-
adulthood.

In few instances, the condition may also be seen among family members
(hereditary).

## Symptoms

Most people with this tumor have attacks of a set of symptoms, which happen
when the tumor releases hormones. The attacks usually last from a few minutes
to hours. The set of symptoms include:

      * Headaches
      * Heart palpitations
      * Sweating
      * High blood pressure 

As the tumor grows, the attacks often increase in frequency, length, and
severity.

Other symptoms that may occur include:

      * Abdominal or chest pain
      * Irritability, nervousness
      * Pallor
      * Weight loss
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Shortness of breath
      * Seizures
      * Problems sleeping 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. You'll be asked about
your medical history and symptoms.

Tests done may include:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Adrenal biopsy
      * Catecholamines blood test (serum catecholamines)
      * Glucose test
      * Metanephrine blood test (serum metanephrine)
      * An imaging test called an MIBG scintiscan
      * MRI of abdomen
      * Urine catecholamines
      * Urine metanephrines
      * PET scan of abdomen 

## Treatment

Treatment involves removing the tumor with surgery. It is important to
stabilize your blood pressure and pulse with certain medicines before surgery.
You may need to stay in the hospital and have your vital signs closely
monitored around the time of surgery. After surgery, your vital signs will be
continuously monitored in an intensive care unit.

When the tumor cannot be surgically removed, you will need to take medicine to
manage it. A combination of medicines is usually needed to control the effects
of the extra hormones. Radiation therapy and chemotherapy have not been
effective in curing this kind of tumor.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who have noncancerous tumors that are removed with surgery are
still alive after 5 years. The tumors come back in some people. Levels of the
hormones norepinephrine and epinephrine return to normal after surgery.

Continued high blood pressure may occur after surgery. Standard treatments can
usually control the high blood pressure.

People who have been successfully treated for pheochromocytoma should have
testing from time to time to make sure the tumor has not returned. Close
family members may also benefit from testing, because some cases are
inherited.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

      * Have symptoms of pheochromocytoma, such as headache, sweating, and palpitations
      * Had a pheochromocytoma in the past and your symptoms return

## Alternative Names

Chromaffin tumors; Paraganglionoma

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Adrenal metastases - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1146t.jpg)Adrenal metastases - CT scan
      * ![Adrenal Tumor - CT](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1147t.jpg)Adrenal Tumor - CT
      * ![Adrenal gland hormone secretion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8719t.jpg)Adrenal gland hormone secretion

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma
treatment (PDQ) - health professional version. Cancer.gov.
www.cancer.gov/types/pheochromocytoma/hp/pheochromocytoma-treatment-
pdq#link/_38_toc. Updated February 8, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Pacak K, Timmers HJLM, Eisenhofer G. Pheochromocytoma. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Patel D, Nilubol N, Kebebew E. The management of pheochromocytoma. In: Cameron
JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:760-767.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pheochromocytoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pheochromocytoma_thumb.jpg)Pheochromocytoma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

