Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000843.htm    
                                Description: Having a child with cancer is one of the hardest things you will ever deal with as a parent. Not only are you filled with worry and concern, you also have to keep track of your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Getting support when your child has cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000843.htm

# Getting support when your child has cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Having a child with cancer is one of the hardest things you will ever deal
with as a parent. Not only are you filled with worry and concern, you also
have to keep track of your child's treatments, medical visits, insurance, and
so on.

You and your partner are used to managing your family life on your own, but
cancer adds an extra burden. Learn how to get help and support so you can cope
more easily. That way you will have more time and energy to be there for your
child.

## Involve Family, Friends, and Your Community

Childhood cancer is tough on a family, but it is also hard on relatives and
friends of the family. Let them know that your child is being treated for
cancer. Ask trusted family members and close friends for help with household
chores or caring for siblings. Having a child with cancer is a crisis in your
family, and other people can and will want to help.

You may also want tell people in your community, at work, school, and church.
It helps when those around you understand what you are going through. Also,
people can help you in different ways. They may have a similar story and can
offer support. Or they may be able to help you run errands or cover a work
shift.

It can be hard to keep everyone updated on what is going on. Repeating news
can be tiring. Online e-mails or social networks are a great way to update the
people in your life. You can also receive kind words of support this way. You
may want to ask another family member to be the point person to update people
and let them know what they can do to help. This will allow you to get support
without having to manage it.

Once you let people know, do not be afraid to set boundaries. You may feel
grateful that people want to help. But sometimes that help and support can be
overwhelming. The most important thing for you and your family is to focus on
caring for your child and for one another. When talking with others:

      * Be open and honest
      * Show and tell others how you and your child want to be treated
      * Let people know if they are giving you or your child too much attention 

## Seek out Support

Many health care providers and groups are available to help you cope with
having a child with cancer. You can reach out to:

      * Your health care team
      * Mental health counselors
      * Online and social media support groups
      * Community groups
      * Local hospital classes and groups
      * Churches
      * Self-help books 

Talk with a hospital social worker or a local foundation to get help with
services or expenses. Private companies and community organizations can also
help with insurance filing and finding money to pay for expenses.

## Take Care of Yourself

By taking care of yourself, you will show your child how to enjoy what life
has to offer.

      * Exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet. Taking care of your body can give you energy to work with your child and providers. Your child will benefit from having healthy parents.
      * Take special time alone with your spouse and other children and friends. Talk about things other than your child's cancer.
      * Make time for yourself to do things you liked to do before your child got sick. Doing things you enjoy will help keep you balanced and reduce stress. If you feel calm, you will be better able to cope with what comes your way.
      * You may have to spend a lot of time in waiting rooms. Think of something quiet you enjoy, like reading books or magazines, knitting, art, or doing a puzzle. Bring these things with you to enjoy while you wait. You might even do breathing exercises or yoga to help reduce stress.

Do not feel guilty about taking delight in life. It is healthy for your child
to see you smile and hear you laugh. That makes it OK for your child to feel
positive too.

## Resources for Parents

These websites have online support groups, books, advice, and information
about dealing with childhood cancer.

      * American Cancer Society -- www.cancer.org
      * American Childhood Cancer Organization -- www.acco.org
      * CureSearch for Children's Cancer -- curesearch.org
      * National Cancer Institute -- www.cancer.gov

## References

American Cancer Society website. Finding help and support when your child has
cancer. www.cancer.org/content/cancer/en/treatment/children-and-cancer/when-
your-child-has-cancer/during-treatment/help-and-support.html. Updated
September 18, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Liptak C, Zeltzer LM, Recklitis CJ. Psychosocial care of the child and family.
In: Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan
and Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 73.

National Cancer Institute website. Children with cancer: A guide for parents.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/children-with-cancer.pdf.
Updated September 2015. Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

