Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000922.htm    
                                Description: Your child is having treatment for cancer. These treatments may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, surgery, or other treatments. Your child may get more than one type of treatment. Your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Questions to ask your child's doctor about cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000922.htm

# Questions to ask your child's doctor about cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child is having treatment for cancer. These treatments may include
chemotherapy, radiation therapy, surgery, or other treatments. Your child may
get more than one type of treatment. Your child's health care provider may
need to follow your child closely during treatment. You will also need to
learn how to care for your child during this time.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your child's provider to help you
plan ahead and know what to expect during treatment.

## Questions

Who will be treating my child:

      * How much experience do you have treating this type of cancer in children?
      * Should we get a second opinion?
      * Who else will be part of my child's health care team?
      * Who will be in charge of my child's treatment? 

Your child's cancer and how it is treated:

      * What type of cancer does my child have?
      * What stage is the cancer at?
      * Does my child need any other tests?
      * What are the treatment options?
      * What type of treatment do you recommend? Why?
      * How likely is this treatment to work?
      * Are there any clinical trials my child can take part in?
      * How do you check if the treatment is working?
      * How likely is it that the cancer will come back after treatment? 

What happens during treatment(s)?

      * What does my child need to do to get ready for treatment?
      * Where will the treatment take place?
      * How long will the treatment last?
      * How often will my child need treatment?
      * What are the side effects of treatment?
      * Are there any treatments for these side effects?
      * Will the treatment affect my child's growth and development?
      * Will the treatment affect my child's ability to have children?
      * Does the treatment have any long-term side effects?
      * Who can I call with questions about my child's treatment or side effects?
      * Can any of the treatment be done at home?
      * Can I stay with my child during treatment?
      * If the treatment is in a hospital, can I stay overnight? What services for children (such as play therapy and activities) are available in the hospital? 

My child's life during treatment:

      * Does my child need any vaccines before treatment?
      * Will my child need to miss school? If so, for how long?
      * Will my child need a tutor?
      * Will my child be able to do other daily activities?
      * Do I need to keep my child away from people with certain illnesses?
      * Are there any support groups for families who are coping with this type of cancer? 

My child's life after treatment:

      * Will my child grow normally?
      * Will my child have cognitive problems after treatment?
      * Will my child have emotional or behavior problems after treatment?
      * Will my child be able to have children as an adult?
      * Will cancer treatment put my child at risk for health problems later in life? What might they be? 

Other

      * Will my child need any follow-up care? For how long?
      * Who can I call if I have questions about the cost of my child's care? 

## References

American Cancer Society website. What should you ask your child's doctor about
childhood leukemia?
www.cancer.org/cancer/leukemiainchildren/detailedguide/childhood-leukemia-
talking-with-doctor. Accessed August 3, 2016 Updated February 3, 2016.
Accessed February 27, 2018.

American Cancer Society website. What should you ask your child's doctor about
neuroblastoma?
www.cancer.org/cancer/neuroblastoma/detailedguide/neuroblastoma-talking-with-
doctor. Updated January 22, 2016. Accessed February 27, 2018.August 3, 2016.

Cancer.Net website. Childhood cancer: Questions to ask the healthcare team.
www.cancer.net/cancer-types/childhood-cancer/questions-ask-doctor. Updated
March April 20, 2017. Accessed February 27, 2018.August 3, 2016.

National Cancer Institute website. Young people with cancer: a handbook for
parents. www.cancer.gov/types/aya. Updated January 31, 2018. Accessed February
27, 2018.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

