Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000845.htm    
                                Description: Childhood cancers are not the same as adult cancers. The type of cancer, how far it spreads, and how it is treated is often different than adult cancers. Children    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How childhood cancers are different from adult cancers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000845.htm

# How childhood cancers are different from adult cancers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Childhood cancers are not the same as adult cancers. The type of cancer, how
far it spreads, and how it is treated is often different than adult cancers.
Children's bodies and the way they respond to treatments are unique as well.

Keep this in mind when reading about cancer. Some cancer research is based on
adults only. Your child's cancer care team can help you understand your
child's cancer and the best options for treatment.

One big difference is that the chance of recovery is high in children. Most
children with cancer can be cured.

## Types of Childhood Cancers

Cancer in children is rare, but some types are more common than others. When
cancer occurs in children, it often affects:

      * Blood cells
      * Lymph system
      * Brain
      * Liver
      * Bones 

The most common cancer in children affects blood cells. It is called acute
lymphocytic leukemia.

While these cancers can happen in adults, they are less common. Other types of
cancer, such as prostate, breast, colon, and lung are more likely in adults
than children.

## What Causes Childhood Cancer

Many times, the cause of a childhood cancer is not known.

Some cancers are linked to changes in certain genes (mutations) passed from
parent to child. In some children, gene changes that occur during early growth
in the womb increase the risk of leukemia. However, not all children with the
mutation get cancer. Children born with Down syndrome are also more likely to
get leukemia.

Unlike adult cancers, childhood cancers do not occur due to lifestyle choices,
like diet and smoking.

It is hard to study childhood cancer because it is rare. Scientists have
looked at other risk factors including chemicals, toxins, and factors from the
mother and father. The results of these studies are unclear.

## Diagnosis

Cancer is usually found at a later stage in children compared to adults. It
has often spread to other organs or tissues. In adults, cancer is often found
in an earlier stage, but not always.

## Treatments

Treatment for childhood cancer is similar to treatment for adult cancer. It
may include:

      * Chemotherapy
      * Radiation therapy
      * Medicines
      * Immune therapy
      * Stem cell transplants
      * Surgery 

For children, the amount of therapy, type of medicine, or need for surgery may
differ from adults.

In many cases, the cancer cells in children respond better to treatments
compared to adults. Children can often handle higher doses of chemo drugs for
shorter periods before side effects occur. Children seem to bounce back sooner
from treatments compared to adults.

Some treatments or medicines given to adults are not safe for children. Your
health care team will help you to understand what is right for your child
depending on his or her age.

Children with cancer are best treated in children's cancer centers attached to
major children's hospitals or universities.

## Side Effects

Treatment for cancer may cause side effects.

Mild side effects, such as rash, pain, and upset stomach can be bothersome for
children. The medicines used to help reduce these symptoms may be different
for children compared to adults.

Other side effects can harm their growing bodies. Organs and tissue may be
changed by treatments and affect how they function. Cancer treatments may also
delay growth in children, or cause another cancer to form later on. Sometimes
these harms are noticed weeks or several years after treatment. These are
called "late effects."

Your child will be watched closely by your health care team for many years to
look for any late side effects. Many of them can be managed or treated.

## References

American Cancer Society website. What are the differences between cancers in
adults and children? www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-in-children/differences-
adults-children.html. Updated September 26, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Cancer in children and adolescents.
www.cancer.gov/types/childhood-cancers/child-adolescent-cancers-fact-sheet.
Updated August 24, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Children with cancer: A guide for parents.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/young-people. Updated September
2015. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Pediatric supportive care (PDQ) - patient
version. www.cancer.gov/types/childhood-cancers/pediatric-care-
pdq#section/all. Updated November 13, 2015. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

