Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000849.htm    
                                Description: Today    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Treatment for childhood cancer - long-term risks

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000849.htm

# Treatment for childhood cancer - long-term risks

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Today's cancer treatments help cure many children of cancer. These treatments
also may cause health problems later on. These are called "late effects."

Late effects are treatment side effects that appear several months or years
after treatment for cancer. Late effects can impact one or more areas of the
body. Effects can be mild to severe. Examples include learning, vision, joint,
or teeth problems.

Whether your child will have late effects depend on the type of cancer and the
treatments your child has. Being aware of your child's risk of long-term
health problems can help you follow-up with health care providers and detect
any problems early.

## What Causes Late Effects

Some cancer treatments damage healthy cells. The damage is not seen during
treatment, but as the child's body grows, changes in cell growth or function
appear.

The medicines used for chemotherapy and the high-energy rays used in radiation
therapy can harm healthy cells. This damage can change or delay the way cells
grow. Radiation therapy has a more direct effect on long-term growth than
chemotherapy.

When cancer surgery is performed, it may cause changes in the growth or
function of an organ.

Your child's health care team will come up with a treatment plan to avoid
harming healthy cells as much as possible.

## Risk Factors

Every child is unique. The risk of getting a late effect depends on many
factors such as:

      * Child's overall health before cancer
      * Child's age at the time of treatment
      * Dose of radiation therapy and what body organs received radiation
      * Chemotherapy type and total dose
      * How long the treatment was needed
      * Type of cancer being treated and area of body involved
      * Child's genetic background (some children are more sensitive to treatments) 

## Types of Late Effects

There are many types of late effects depending on where the cancer was and
what types of treatments were done. Many of the effects can be managed. The
following are examples of some late effects based on body parts affected.

Brain:

      * Learning
      * Memory
      * Attention
      * Language
      * Behavior and emotional problems
      * Seizures, headaches 

Ears:

      * Hearing loss
      * Ringing in the ears
      * Dizziness 

Eyes:

      * Vision problems
      * Dry or watery eyes
      * Sensitivity to light
      * Irritation
      * Drooping eyelid
      * Eyelid tumors 

Lungs:

      * Infections
      * Shortness of breath
      * Persistent cough
      * Trouble breathing
      * Lung cancer 

Mouth:

      * Small or missing teeth
      * Risk for cavities
      * Sensitive teeth
      * Delayed tooth development
      * Gum disease
      * Dry mouth 

Other late effects may include:

      * Muscle or bone can be affected in any area of the body where treatments were needed. It may impact how a child walks or runs or cause bone or muscle pain, weakness, or stiffness.
      * Glands and organs that make hormones may be exposed to treatments. These include the thyroid gland in the neck and pituitary gland in the brain. This can have an effect on later growth, metabolism, puberty, fertility, and other functions.
      * The heart's rhythm or function may be affected by certain treatments.
      * A small increase in risk of getting another cancer later in life. 

Most of the effects above are physical. There may be long-term emotional
effects as well. Coping with health problems, extra medical visits, or the
worries that come with cancer can be a lifelong challenge.

## Preventing Health Problems

Many late effects cannot be prevented, but others can be managed or treated.

There are some things your child can do to help prevent other health problems
and detect problems early such as:

      * Eat healthy foods
      * DO NOT smoke
      * Exercise regularly
      * Maintain a healthy weight
      * Have regular screenings and tests, including the heart and lungs 

## Follow-Up

Watching for late effects will be a key part of your child's care for many
years. The Children's Oncology Group (COG) creates guidelines for long-term
follow-up in children and adolescents who have had cancer. Ask your child's
provider about the guidelines. Follow these general steps:

      * Make regular appointments for physical exams and tests.
      * Keep detailed records of your child's treatments.
      * Get copies of all medical reports.
      * Keep a contact list of your child's health care team.
      * Ask your child's provider what late effects your child may want to look out for based on the treatments.
      * Share information about the cancer with future providers.

Regular follow-up and care gives your child the best chance of recovery and
good health.

## Alternative Names

Childhood cancer - late effects

## References

American Cancer Society website. Late effects of childhood cancer treatment.
www.cancer.org/treatment/childrenandcancer/whenyourchildhascancer/children-
diagnosed-with-cancer-late-effects-of-cancer-treatment. Updated September 18,
2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Children with cancer: A guide for parents.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/children-with-cancer.pdf.
Updated September 2015. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Late effects of treatment for childhood
cancer (PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/childhood-
cancers/late-effects-hp-pdq#section/all. Updated July 6, 2018. Accessed August
22, 2018.

Vrooman L, Diller L, Kenney LB. Childhood cancer survivorship. In: Orkin SH,
Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and Oski's
Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 72.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cancer in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

