Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000795.htm    
                                Description: Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) is a disorder in which tumors form on the nerves of the brain and spine (the central nervous system). It is passed down (inherited) in families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neurofibromatosis 2

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000795.htm

# Neurofibromatosis 2

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) is a disorder in which tumors form on the nerves of
the brain and spine (the central nervous system). It is passed down
(inherited) in families.

Although it has a similar name to neurofibromatosis type 1, it is a different
and separate condition.

## Causes

NF2 can be passed down through families in an autosomal dominant pattern. This
means that if one parent has NF2, any child of that parent has a 50% chance of
inheriting the condition.

The main risk factor is having a family history of the condition.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of NF2 include:

      * Balance problems
      * Cataracts at a young age
      * Changes in vision
      * Coffee-colored marks on the skin (cafÃ©-au-lait), less common
      * Headaches
      * Hearing loss
      * Ringing and noises in the ears
      * Weakness of the face 

## Exams and Tests

Signs of NF2 include:

      * Brain and spinal tumors
      * Hearing-related (acoustic) tumors
      * Skin tumors 

Tests include:

      * Physical examination
      * Medical history
      * MRI
      * CT scan
      * Genetic testing

## Treatment

Acoustic tumors can be observed, or treated with surgery or radiation.

People with this disorder may benefit from genetic counseling.

People with NF2 should be regularly evaluated with these tests:

      * MRI of the brain and spinal cord
      * Hearing and speech evaluation
      * Eye exam

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on NF2:

      * Children's Tumor Foundation -- www.ctf.org
      * Neurofibromatosis Network -- www.nfnetwork.orgÂ 

## Alternative Names

NF2; Bilateral acoustic neurofibromatosis; Bilateral vestibular schwannomas;
Central neurofibromatosis

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Sahin M. Neurocutaneous syndromes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 596.

Slattery WH. Neurofibromatosis 2. In: Brackmann DE, Shelton C, Arriaga MA,
eds. _Otologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 57.

Varma R, Williams SD. Neurology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Neurofibromatosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neurofibromatosis_thumb.jpg)Neurofibromatosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

