Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001024.htm    
                                Description: Gliomas are tumors that grow in various parts of the brain. Optic gliomas can affect:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Optic glioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001024.htm

# Optic glioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gliomas are tumors that grow in various parts of the brain. Optic gliomas can
affect:

      * One or both of the optic nerves that carry visual information to the brain from each eye
      * The optic chiasm, the area where the optic nerves cross each other in front of the hypothalamus of the brain

An optic glioma may also grow along with a hypothalamic glioma.

## Causes

Optic gliomas are rare. The cause of optic gliomas is unknown. Most optic
gliomas are slow-growing and noncancerous (benign) and occur in children,
almost always before age 20.Â Most cases are diagnosed by 5 years of age.

There is a strong association between optic glioma and neurofibromatosis type
1 (NF1).

## Symptoms

The symptoms are due to the tumor growing and pressing on the optic nerve and
nearby structures. Symptoms may include:

      * Involuntary eyeball movement
      * Outward bulging of one or both eyesÂ 
      * Squinting
      * Vision loss in one or both eyes thatÂ starts with theÂ loss of peripheral vision and eventually leads to blindness

TheÂ child may show symptoms of diencephalic syndrome, which includes:

      * Daytime sleeping
      * Decreased memory and brain function
      * Headaches  

      * Delayed growth
      * Loss of body fat 
      * Vomiting  

## Exams and Tests

A brain and nervous system (neurologic) examination reveals a loss of vision
in one or both eyes. There may be changes in the optic nerve, including
swelling or scarring of the nerve, or paleness and damage to the optic disc.

The tumor may extend into deeper parts of the brain. There may be signs of
increased pressure in the brain (intracranial pressure). There may be signs of
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).

The following tests may be performed:

      * Cerebral angiography
      * Examination of tissue removed from the tumor during surgery or CT scan-guided biopsyÂ to confirm the tumor type
      * Head CT scan or MRI of the head
      * Visual field tests

## Treatment

Treatment varies with the size of the tumor and the general health of the
person. The goal may be to cure the disorder, relieve symptoms, or improve
vision and comfort.

Surgery to remove the tumor may cure some optic gliomas. Partial removal to
reduce theÂ size of the tumor can be done in many cases. This will keep the
tumor from damaging normal brain tissue around it. Chemotherapy may be used in
some children. Chemotherapy may be especially useful when the tumor extends
into the hypothalamus or if vision has been worsened by the tumor's growth.

Radiation therapy may be recommended in some cases when the tumor is growing
despite chemotherapy, and surgery is not possible. In some cases, radiation
therapy may be delayed because the tumor is slow growing. Children with NF1
usually won't receive radiation due to the side effects.

Corticosteroids may be prescribed to reduce swelling and inflammation during
radiation therapy, or if symptoms return.

## Support Groups

Organizations that provide support and additional information include:

      * Children's Brain Tumor Foundation --Â www.cbtf.org
      * Children's Oncology Group --Â www.childrensoncologygroup.org
      * Neurofibromatosis Network --Â www.nfnetwork.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is very different forÂ each person. Early treatment improves the
chance of a good outcome. Careful follow-up with a care team experienced with
this type of tumor is important.

Once vision is lost from the growth of an optic tumor, it may not return.

Normally, the growth of the tumor is very slow, and the condition remains
stable for long periods. However, the tumor can continue to grow, so it must
be monitored closely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider for any vision loss, painless bulging of the
eye, or other symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be advised for people with NF1. Regular eye exams may
allow early diagnosis of these tumors before they cause symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Glioma - optic; Optic nerve glioma; Juvenile pilocytic astrocytoma; Brain
cancer - optic glioma

## Images

      * ![Neurofibromatosis I, enlarged optic foramen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1276t.jpg)Neurofibromatosis I, enlarged optic foramen

## References

Eberhart CG. Eye and ocular adnexa. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney JK,
Myers JL, eds. _Rosai and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

Goodden J, Mallucci C. Optic pathway hypothalamic gliomas. In: Winn HR, ed.
_Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 207.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Abnormalities
of the optic nerve. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 631.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neurofibromatosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neurofibromatosis_thumb.jpg)Neurofibromatosis
_Read more_

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Optic Nerve
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

