Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001172.htm    
                                Description: Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor (SLCT) is a rare cancer of the ovaries. The cancer cells produce and release a male sex hormone called testosterone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001172.htm

# Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor (SLCT) is a rare cancer of the ovaries. The cancer
cells produce and release a male sex hormone called testosterone.

## Causes

The exact cause of this tumor is not known. Changes (mutations) in genes may
play a role.

SLCT occur most often in young women 20 to 30 years old. But the tumor can
occur at any age.

## Symptoms

The Sertoli cells are normally located in the male reproductive glands (the
testes). They feed sperm cells. The Leydig cells, also located in the testes,
release a male sex hormone.

These cells are also found in a woman's ovaries, and in very rare cases lead
to cancer. SLCT starts in the female ovaries, mostly in one ovary. The cancer
cells release a male sex hormone. As a result, the woman may develop symptoms
such as:

      * A deep voice
      * Enlarged clitoris
      * Facial hair
      * Loss in breast size
      * Stopping of menstrual periods

Pain in the lower belly (pelvic area) is another symptom. It occurs due to the
tumor pressing on nearby structures.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and a pelvic exam, and
ask about the symptoms.

Tests will be ordered to checkÂ the levels of female and male hormones,
including testosterone.

An ultrasound or CT scan will likely be done to find out where the tumor is
and its size and shape.

## Treatment

Surgery is done to remove one or both ovaries.

If the tumor is advanced stage, chemotherapy or radiation therapy may be done
after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early treatment results in a good outcome. Feminine characteristics usually
return after surgery. But male characteristics resolve more slowly.

For more advanced stage tumors, outlook is less positive.

## Alternative Names

Sertoli-stromal cell tumor; Arrhenoblastoma; Androblastoma; Ovarian cancer -
Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor

## Images

      * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Crum CP, Laury AR, Hirsch MS, Quick CM, Peters WA. Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor.
In: Crum CP, Laury AR, Hirsch MS, Quick CM, Peters WA, eds. _Gynecologic and
Obstetric Pathology_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:693-695.

Penick ER, Hamilton CA, Maxwell GL, Marcus CS. Germ cell, stromal, and other
ovarian tumors. In: DiSaia PJ, Creasman WT, Mannel RS, McMeekin DS, Mutch DG,
eds. _Clinical Gynecologic Oncology_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 12.

Smith RP. Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor (arrhenoblastoma). In: Smith RP, ed.
_Netter's Obstetrics & Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 158.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ovarian
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCancer_thumb.jpg)Ovarian Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

