Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003711.htm    
                                Description: An estradiol test measures the amount of a hormone called estradiol in the blood. Estradiol is one of the main types of estrogens.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Estradiol blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003711.htm

# Estradiol blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An estradiol test measures the amount of a hormone called estradiol in the
blood. Estradiol is one of the main types of estrogens.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking certain
medicines that may affect test results. Be sure to tell your provider about
all the medicines you take. These include:

      * Birth control pills
      * Antibiotics such as ampicillin or tetracycline
      * Corticosteroids
      * DHEA (a supplement)
      * Estrogen
      * Medicine to manage mental disorders (such as phenothiazine)
      * Testosterone 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your doctor.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

In women, most estradiol is released from the ovaries and adrenal glands. It
is also released by the placenta during pregnancy. Estradiol is also produced
in other body tissues, such as skin, fat, cells bone, brain, and liver.
Estradiol plays a role in:

      * Growth of the womb (uterus), fallopian tubes, and vagina
      * Breast development
      * Changes of the outer genitals
      * Distribution of body fat
      * Menopause 

In men, a small amount of estradiol is mainly released by the testes.
Estradiol helps prevent sperm from dying too early.

This test may be ordered to check:

      * How well your ovaries, placenta, or adrenal glands work
      * If you have signs of an ovarian tumor
      * If male or female body characteristics are not developing normally
      * If your periods have stopped (levels of estradiol vary, depending on the time of month) 

The test may also be ordered to check if:

      * Hormone therapy is working for women in menopause
      * A woman is responding to fertility treatment 

The test may also be used to monitor people with hypopituitarism and women on
certain fertility treatments.

## Normal Results

The results may vary, depending on the person's gender and age.

      * Male - 10 to 50 pg/mL (36.7 to 183.6 pmol/L)
      * Female (premenopausal) - 30 to 400 pg/mL (110 to 1468.4 pmol/L)
      * Female (postmenopausal) - 0 to 30 pg/mL (0 to 110 pmol/L) 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Disorders that are associated with abnormal estradiol results include:

      * Early (precocious) puberty in girls
      * Growth of abnormally large breasts in men (gynecomastia)
      * Lack of periods in women (amenorrhea)
      * Reduced function of the ovaries (ovarian hypofunction)
      * Problem with genes, such as Klinefelter syndrome, Turner syndrome
      * Rapid weight loss or low body fat 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

E2 test

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Haisenleder DJ, Marshall JC. Gonadotropins: regulation of synthesis and
secretion. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![Ovarian
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCancer_thumb.jpg)Ovarian Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

