Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007217.htm    
                                Description: The CA-125 blood test measures the level of the protein CA-125 in the blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CA-125 blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007217.htm

# CA-125 blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The CA-125 blood test measures the level of the protein CA-125 in the blood.

## How the Test Is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

CA-125 is a protein that is found more in ovarian cancer cells than in other
cells.

This blood test is often used to monitor women who have been diagnosed with
ovarian cancer. The test is useful if the CA-125 level was high when the
cancer was first diagnosed. In these cases, measuring the CA-125 over time is
a good tool to determine if ovarian cancer treatment is working.

The CA-125 test may also be done if a woman has symptoms or findings on
ultrasound that suggest ovarian cancer.

In general, this test is not used to screen healthy women for ovarian cancer
when a diagnosis has not yet been made.

## Normal Results

A level above 35 U/mL is considered abnormal.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In a woman who has ovarian cancer, a rise in CA-125 usually means that the
disease has progressed or come back (recurred). A decrease in CA-125 usually
means the disease is responding to current treatment.

In a woman who has not been diagnosed with ovarian cancer, a rise in CA-125
may mean a number of things. While it may mean that she has ovarian cancer, it
can also indicate other types of cancer, as well as several other diseases,
such as endometriosis, which are not cancer.

In healthy women, an elevated CA-125 usually does not mean ovarian cancer is
present. Most healthy women with an elevated CA-125 do not have ovarian
cancer, or any other cancer.

Any woman with an abnormal CA-125 test needs further tests. Sometimes surgery
is needed to confirm the cause.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Ovarian cancer - CA-125 test

## References

Coleman RL, Ramirez PT, Gershenson DM. Neoplastic diseases of the ovary:
screening, benign and malignant epithelial and germ cell neoplasms, sex-cord
stromal tumors. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

Jain S, Pincus MR, Bluth MH, McPherson RA, Bowne WB, Lee P. Diagnosis and
management of cancer using serologic and other body fluid markers. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Morgan M, Boyd J, Drapking R, Seiden MV. Cancers arising in the ovary. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 89.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ovarian
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCancer_thumb.jpg)Ovarian Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

