Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000889.htm    
                                Description: Ovarian cancer is cancer that starts in the ovaries. The ovaries are the female reproductive organs that produce eggs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ovarian cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000889.htm

# Ovarian cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ovarian cancer is cancer that starts in the ovaries. The ovaries are the
female reproductive organs that produce eggs.

## Causes

Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cancer among women. It causes more
deaths than any other type of female reproductive organ cancer.

The cause of ovarian cancer is unknown.

Risks of developing ovarian cancer include any of the following:

      * The fewer children a woman has and the later in life she gives birth, the higher her risk for ovarian cancer.
      * Women who have had breast cancer or have a family history of breast or ovarian cancer have an increased risk for ovarian cancer (due to defects in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes).
      * Women who take estrogen replacement only (not with progesterone) for 5 years or more may have a higher risk for ovarian cancer. Birth control pills, though, decrease the risk for ovarian cancer.
      * Fertility medicine probably does not increase the risk for ovarian cancer.
      * Older women are at highest risk of developing ovarian cancer. Most deaths from ovarian cancer occur in women age 55 and older. 

## Symptoms

Ovarian cancer symptoms are often vague. Women and their doctors often blame
the symptoms on other, more common conditions. By the time the cancer is
diagnosed, the tumor has often spread beyond the ovaries.

See your doctor if you have the following symptoms on a daily basis for more
than a few weeks:

      * Bloating or swollen belly area
      * Difficulty eating or feeling full quickly (early satiety)
      * Pelvic or lower abdominal pain (area may feel "heavy")
      * Back pain
      * Swollen lymph nodes in groin 

Other symptoms that can occur:

      * Excessive hair growth that is coarse and dark
      * Sudden urge to urinate
      * Needing to urinate more often than usual (increased urinary frequency or urgency)
      * Constipation 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam is often normal. With advanced ovarian cancer, the doctor may
find a swollen abdomen often due to accumulation of fluid (ascites).

A pelvic examination may reveal an ovarian or abdominal mass.

A CA-125 blood test is not considered a good screening test for ovarian
cancer. But, it may be done if a woman has:

      * Symptoms of ovarian cancer
      * Already been diagnosed with ovarian cancer to determine how well treatment is working 

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Complete blood count and blood chemistry
      * Pregnancy test (serum HCG)
      * CT or MRI of the pelvis or abdomen
      * Ultrasound of the pelvis 

Surgery, such as a pelvic laparoscopy or exploratory laparotomy, is often done
to find the cause of symptoms. A biopsy will be done to help make the
diagnosis.

No lab or imaging test has ever been shown to be able to successfully screen
for or diagnose ovarian cancer in its early stages, so no standard screening
tests are recommended at this time.

## Treatment

Surgery is used to treat all stages of ovarian cancer. For early stages,
surgery may be the only treatment. Surgery may involve removing both ovaries
and fallopian tubes, the uterus, or other structures in the belly or pelvis.

Chemotherapy is used after surgery to treat any cancer that remains.
Chemotherapy can also be used if the cancer comes back (relapses).
Chemotherapy can be given intravenously (through an IV). It can also be
injected directly into the abdominal cavity (intraperitoneal, or IP).

Radiation therapy is rarely used to treat ovarian cancer in the United States.

After surgery and chemotherapy, follow instructions about how often you should
see your doctor and the tests you should have.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Ovarian cancer is rarely diagnosed in its early stages. It is usually quite
advanced by the time diagnosis is made:

      * Nearly one half of women live longer than 5 years after diagnosis
      * If diagnosis is made early in the disease and treatment is received before the cancer spreads outside the ovary, the 5-year survival rate is high 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you are a woman 40 years or older who has
not recently had a pelvic exam. Routine pelvic exams are recommended for all
women 20 years or older.

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of ovarian
cancer.

## Prevention

There are no standard recommendations for screening for ovarian cancer. Pelvic
ultrasound or a blood test, such as CA-125, has not been found to be effective
andÂ is not recommended.

BRCA1 or BRCA2 genetic testing may be recommended for women at high risk for
ovarian cancer. These are women who have a personal or family history of
breast or ovarian cancer.

Removing the ovaries and fallopian tubes in women who have a proven mutation
in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene may reduce the risk of developing ovarian cancer.
But, ovarian cancer may still develop in other areas of the pelvis.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - ovaries

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal radiation - discharge
      * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
      * Pelvic radiation - discharge

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Ascites with ovarian cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1151t.jpg)Ascites with ovarian cancer - CT scan
      * ![Peritoneal and ovarian cancer, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1195t.jpg)Peritoneal and ovarian cancer, CT scan
      * ![Ovarian cancer dangers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17106t.jpg)Ovarian cancer dangers
      * ![Ovarian growth worries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17109t.jpg)Ovarian growth worries
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
      * ![Ovarian cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8655t.jpg)Ovarian cancer
      * ![Ovarian cancer metastasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9627t.jpg)Ovarian cancer metastasis

## References

Coleman RL, Ramirez PT, Gershenson DM. Neoplastic diseases of the ovary:
screening, benign and malignant epithelial and germ cell neoplasms, sex-cord
stromal tumors. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

Morgan M, Boyd J, Drapkin R, Seiden MV. Cancers arising in the ovary. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 89.

National Cancer Institute website. BRCA mutations: cancer risk and genetic
testing. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/brca-fact-
sheet. Updated January 30, 2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ovarian
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCancer_thumb.jpg)Ovarian Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

