Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001575.htm    
                                Description: Wilms tumor (WT) is a type of kidney cancer that occurs in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wilms tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001575.htm

# Wilms tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Wilms tumor (WT) is a type of kidney cancer that occurs in children.

## Causes

WT is the most common form of childhood kidney cancer. The exact cause of this
tumor in most children is unknown.

A missing iris of the eye (aniridia) is a birth defect that is sometimes
associated with WT. Other birth defects linked to this type of kidney cancer
include certain urinary tract problems and swelling ofÂ one side of the body,
a condition called hemihypertrophy.

It is more common among some siblings and twins, which suggests a possible
genetic cause.

The disease occurs most often in children about 3 years old. More than 90% of
cases are diagnosed before 10 years of age. In rare cases, it is seen in
children older than 15 years of age, and in adults.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Abnormal urine color
      * Constipation
      * Fever
      * General discomfort or uneasiness (malaise)
      * High blood pressure
      * Increased growth on onlyÂ one side of the body
      * Loss of appetite
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Swelling in the abdomen (abdominal hernia or mass)
      * Sweating (at night)
      * Blood in urine (hematuria)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
your child's symptoms and medical history. You will be asked if you have a
family history of cancer.

A physical examination may show an abdominal mass. High blood pressure may
also be present.

Tests include:

      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * Abdominal x-ray
      * BUN
      * Chest x-rayÂ or CT scan
      * Complete blood countÂ (CBC),Â may show anemia
      * Creatinine
      * Creatinine clearance
      * CT scan of the abdomenÂ with contrast
      * MRI
      * Intravenous pyelogram
      * MR angiography (MRA)
      * Urinalysis
      * Alkaline phosphate
      * Calcium
      * Transaminases (liver enzymes)

Other tests needed to determine if the tumor has spread may include:

      * Echocardiogram
      * Lung scan
      * PET scan
      * Biopsy

## Treatment

If your child is diagnosed with WT, do not prod or push on the child's belly
area. Use care during bathing and handling to avoid injury to the tumor site.

The first step in treatment is to stage the tumor. Staging helps the provider
determine how far the cancer has spread and to plan for the best treatment.
Surgery to remove the tumor is planned as soon as possible. Surrounding
tissues and organs may also need to be removed if the tumor has spread.

Radiation therapy and chemotherapy will often be started after surgery,
depending on the stage of the tumor.

Chemotherapy given before the surgery is also effective in preventing
complications.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children whose tumor has not spread have a 90% cure rate with appropriate
treatment. Prognosis is also better in children younger than 2 years of age.

## Possible Complications

The tumor may become quite large, but usually remains self-enclosed. Spread of
the tumor to the lungs, lymph nodes, liver, bone, or brain is the most
worrisome complication.

High blood pressure and kidney damage may occur as the result of the tumor or
its treatment.

Removal of WT from both kidneys may affect kidney function.

Other possible complications of the long-term treatment of WT may include:

      * Heart failure
      * Secondary cancer elsewhere in the body that develops after the treatment of first cancer
      * Short height

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

      * You discover a lump in your child's abdomen, blood in the urine, or other symptoms of WT.
      * Your child is being treated for this condition and symptoms get worse or new symptoms develop, mainly cough, chest pain, weight loss, or persistent fevers.

## Prevention

For children with a known high risk for WT, screening using ultrasound of the
kidneys or prenatal genetic analysis may be suggested.

## Alternative Names

Nephroblastoma; Kidney tumor - Wilms

## Images

      * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
      * ![Wilms tumor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9056t.jpg)Wilms tumor

## References

Babaian KN, Delacroix SE, Wood CG, Jonasch E. Kidney cancer. In: Skorecki K,
Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

National Cancer Institute website. Wilms tumor and other childhood kidney
tumors treatment (PDQ) â health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/kidney/hp/wilms-treatment-pdq. Updated April 2, 2018.
Accessed May 7, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): kidney cancer. Version 4.2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/kidney.pdf. Updated April 23,
2018. Accessed May 7, 2018.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Wilms Tumor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WilmsTumor_thumb.jpg)Wilms Tumor
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

