Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000607.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10;&#10; &#10;Most pregnant teenage girls did not plan to get pregnant. If you are a pregnant teen, it is very important to get health care during your pregnancy. Know that there are extra health risks for both    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Teenage pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000607.htm

# Teenage pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most pregnant teenage girls did not plan to get pregnant. If you are a
pregnant teen, it is very important to get health care during your pregnancy.
Know that there are extra health risks for both you and your baby.

## When You Find Out You Are Pregnant

Make an appointment with your health care provider after you find out you are
pregnant. Talk with your provider about your options for abortion, adoption,
or keeping the baby.

If you decide to continue the pregnancy, it is important to have good prenatal
care. Prenatal care will help you stay healthy and ensure you have a healthy
baby. Your provider can also provide counseling and refer you to community
services to make sure you and your baby have what you need.

If you do not know where to go and feel like you cannot tell your family or a
friend that you are pregnant, talk with your school nurse or school counselor.
They can help you find prenatal care and other help in your community. Many
communities have resources such as Planned Parenthood, which can help you get
the care you need.

## Your Prenatal Visits

At your first prenatal visit, your provider will:

      * Ask you many questions, including the date of your last menstrual period. Knowing this will help the provider figure out how far along you are and what your due date is.
      * Take a blood sample to do some tests.
      * Do a full pelvic exam.
      * Do a Pap test and other tests to check for infections and other problems.

Your 1st trimester is the first 3 months of your pregnancy. During this time,
you will have a prenatal visit once a month. These visits may be short, but
they are still important.

It is fine to bring a friend or family member, your partner, or your labor
coach with you.

## Stay Healthy During Your Pregnancy

You can do many things to help you and your baby stay as healthy as possible.

      * Eating a healthy diet will help you get the nutrients both of you need. Your provider can refer you to community resources to help you learn more about healthy eating.
      * Prenatal vitamins will help prevent some birth defects. You may also need to take a folic acid supplement.
      * DO NOT smoke or use alcohol or drugs. These can harm your baby. Ask your provider for help quitting if you need to.
      * Exercise to help make you stronger for labor and delivery, give you more energy, and may help you sleep better.
      * Get plenty of sleep. You may need 8 to 9 hours a night, plus rest breaks during the day.
      * Use a condom if you are still having sex. This will prevent sexually transmitted infections that could hurt you or your baby. 

## Getting Ready to Be a Parent

Try to stay in school during your pregnancy and after you give birth. Talk
with your school counselor if you need help with child care or tutoring.

Your education will give you skills to be a better parent, and it will make
you more able to provide for your child financially and emotionally.

Make a plan for how you will pay for the costs of raising your child. You will
need a place to live, food, medical care, and other things. Are there
resources in your community that can help? Your school counselor may know what
resources are available to you.

## Is Teenage Pregnancy Riskier?

Yes. Teenage pregnancies are riskier than pregnancies in women who are older.
This is partly because a teenager's body is still developing, and partly
because many pregnant teens do not get the health care they need during
pregnancy.

Risks are:

      * Going into labor early. This is when the baby is born before 37 weeks. A normal pregnancy lasts about 40 weeks.
      * Low birth weight. Babies of teens are much more likely to weigh less than babies of mothers who are 20 years or older.
      * High blood pressure that is caused by the pregnancy.
      * Low levels of iron in the blood (severe anemia), which can cause extreme tiredness and other problems.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - teenage pregnancy

## Images

      * ![Adolescent pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17005t.jpg)Adolescent pregnancy

## References

Dalby J, Hayon R, Carlson J. Adolescent pregnancy and contraception. _Prim
Care_. 2014;41(3):607-629. PMID: 25124209
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25124209.

Elfenbein DS, Felice ME. Adolescent pregnancy. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 118.

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

West EH, Hark L, Catalano PM. Nutrition during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Teenage Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

