Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002955.htm    
                                Description: A tracheostomy is a surgical procedure to create an opening through the neck into the trachea (windpipe). A tube is most often placed through this opening to provide an airway and to remove secretions    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tracheostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002955.htm

# Tracheostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tracheostomy is a surgical procedure to create an opening through the neck
into the trachea (windpipe). A tube is most often placed through this opening
to provide an airway and to remove secretions from the lungs. This tube is
called a tracheostomy tube or trach tube.

## Description

General anesthesia is used, unless the situation is critical. If that happens,
a numbing medicine is placed into the area to help you feel less pain during
the procedure. Other medicines are also given to relax and calm you (if there
is time).

The neck is cleaned and draped. Surgical cuts are made to reveal the tough
cartilage rings that form the outer wall of the trachea. The surgeon creates
an opening into the trachea and inserts a tracheostomy tube.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A tracheostomy may be done if you have:

      * A large object blocking the airway
      * An inability to breathe on your own
      * An inherited abnormality of the larynx or trachea
      * Breathed in harmful material such as smoke, steam, or other toxic gases that swell and block the airway
      * Cancer of the neck, which can affect breathing by pressing on the airway
      * Paralysis of the muscles that affect swallowing
      * Severe neck or mouth injuries
      * Surgery around the voice box (larynx) that prevents normal breathing and swallowing

## Risks

The risks for any anesthesia are:

      * Problems breathing
      * Reactions to medicines, including heart attack and stroke, or allergic reaction (rash, swelling, breathing difficulty) 

The risks for any surgery are:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Nerve injury, including paralysis
      * Scarring 

Other risks include:

      * Abnormal connection between the trachea and major blood vessels
      * Damage to the thyroid gland
      * Erosion of the trachea (rare)
      * Puncture of the lung and lung collapse
      * Scar tissue in the trachea that causes pain or trouble breathing 

## After the Procedure

A person may have a sense of panic and feel unable to breathe and speak when
first waking up after the tracheostomy and placement of the tracheostomy tube.
This feeling will lessen over time. Medicines may be given to help reduce the
patient's stress.

If the tracheostomy is temporary, the tube will eventually be removed. Healing
will occur quickly, leaving a small scar. Sometimes, a surgical procedure may
be needed to close the site (stoma).

Occasionally a stricture, or tightening of the trachea may develop, which may
affect breathing.

If the tracheostomy tube is permanent, the hole remains open.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people need 1 to 3 days to adapt to breathing through a tracheostomy
tube. It will take some time to learn how to communicate with others. At
first, it may be impossible for the person to talk or make sounds.

After training and practice, most people can learn to talk with a tracheostomy
tube. People or family members learn how to take care of the tracheostomy
during the hospital stay. Home-care service may also be available.

You should be able to go back to your normal lifestyle. When you are outside,
you can wear a loose covering (a scarf or other protection) over the
tracheostomy stoma (hole). Use safety precautions when you are exposed to
water, aerosols, powder, or food particles.

## Images

      * ![Tracheostomy - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7187t.jpg)Tracheostomy - series

## References

Greenwood JC, Winters ME. Tracheostomy care. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

Kelly A-M. Respiratory emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 6.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Critical
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CriticalCare_thumb.jpg)Critical Care
_Read more_

![Tracheal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrachealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tracheal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

