Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000465.htm    
                                Description: Speaking is a key part of communicating with people. Having a tracheostomy tube can change your ability to talk and interact with others.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tracheostomy tube - speaking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000465.htm

# Tracheostomy tube - speaking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Speaking is a key part of communicating with people. Having a tracheostomy
tube can change your ability to talk and interact with others.

However, you can learn how to speak with a tracheostomy tube. It just takes
practice. There are even speaking devices that can help you.

## Tracheostomy Tubes and Speaking

Air passing through vocal cords (larynx) causes them to vibrate, creating
sounds and speech.

A tracheostomy tube blocks most of the air from passing through your vocal
cords. Instead, your breath (air) goes out through your tracheostomy tube
(trach).

At the time of your surgery, the first trach tube will have a balloon (cuff)
that lies in your trachea.

      * If the cuff is inflated (filled with air), it will prevent air from moving through your vocal cords. This will stop you from making noise or speech.
      * If the cuff is deflated, the air is able to move around the trach and through your vocal cords, and you should be able to make sounds. However, most of the time the trach tube is changed after 5 to 7 days to a smaller, cuffless trach. This makes speaking much easier.

## Practicing

If your tracheostomy has a cuff, it will need to be deflated. Your caregiver
should make the decision about when to deflate your cuff.

When the cuff is deflated and air can pass around your trach, you should try
to talk and make sounds.

Speaking will be harder than before you had your trach. You may need to use
more force to push the air out through your mouth. To speak:

      * Take a deep breath in.
      * Breathe out, using more force than you normally would to push the air out.
      * Close off the trach tube opening with your finger and then speak.
      * You may not hear much at first.
      * You will build up the strength to push the air out through your mouth as you practice.
      * The sounds you make will get louder. 

In order to speak, it is important that you place a clean finger over the
trach to prevent air from exiting through the trach. This will help the air go
out through your mouth to make voice.

## Speaking Valves

If it is hard to speak with a trach in place, special devices can help you
learn to create sounds.

One-way valves, called speaking valves, are placed onto your tracheostomy.
Speaking valves allow air to enter through the tube and exit through your
mouth and nose. This will allow you to make noises and speak more easily
without needing to use your finger to block your trach each time you talk.

Some patients may not be able to use these valves. The speech therapist will
work with you to ensure you are a good candidate. If a speaking valve is
placed on your trach, and you have trouble breathing, the valve may not be
allowing enough air to pass around your trach.

## Other Factors to Think About

The width of the tracheostomy tube may play a role. If the tube takes up too
much space in your throat, there may not be enough room for the air to pass
around the tube.

Your trach may be fenestrated. This means the trach has extra holes built into
it. These holes allow air to pass through your vocal cords. They can make it
easier to eat and breathe with a tracheostomy tube.

It may take much longer to develop speech if you have:

      * Vocal cord damage
      * Injury to the vocal cord nerves, which can change the way the vocal cords move 

## Alternative Names

Trach - speaking

## References

Dobkin BH. Neurological Rehabilitation. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 57.

Greenwood JC, Winters ME. Tracheostomy care.In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

Mirza N, Goldberg AN, Simonian MA. Swallowing and communication disorders. In:
Lanken PN, Manaker S, Kohl BA, Hanson CW, eds. _Intensive Care Unit Manual_.
2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/30/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Tracheal Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

