Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000076.htm    
                                Description: A tracheostomy is surgery to create a hole in your neck that goes into your windpipe. If you need it for just a short time, it will be closed later. Some people need the hole for the rest of their life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tracheostomy care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000076.htm

# Tracheostomy care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tracheostomy is surgery to create a hole in your neck that goes into your
windpipe. If you need it for just a short time, it will be closed later. Some
people need the hole for the rest of their life.

The hole is needed when your airway is blocked, or for some conditions that
make it hard for you to breathe. You may need a tracheostomy if you are on a
breathing machine (ventilator) for a long time.

After the hole is made, a plastic tube is placed in the hole to keep it open.
A ribbon is tied around the neck to keep the tube in place.

## When You're in the Hospital

Before you leave the hospital, health care providers will teach you how to do
the following:

      * Clean, replace, and suction the tube
      * Keep the air you breathe moist
      * Clean the hole with water and mild soap or hydrogen peroxide
      * Change the dressing around the hole 

DO NOT do strenuous activity or hard exercise for 6 weeks after surgery. After
your surgery, you may not be able to speak. Ask your provider for a referral
to a speech therapist to help you learn to talk with your tracheostomy. This
is usually possible once your condition improves.

## Self-care

After you go home, follow instructions on how to care for your tracheostomy.
Use the information below as a reminder.

You will have a small amount of mucus around the tube. This is normal. The
hole in your neck should be pink and painless.

It is important to keep the tube free of thick mucus. You should always carry
an extra tube with you in case your tube gets plugged. Once you put in the new
tube, clean the old one and keep it with you as your extra tube.

When you cough, have a tissue or cloth ready to catch the mucus coming from
your tube.

Your nose will no longer keep the air you breathe moist. Talk with your
provider about how to keep the air you breathe moist and how to prevent plugs
in your tube.

Some common ways to keep the air you breathe moist are:

      * Putting a wet gauze or cloth over the outside of your tube. Keep it moist.
      * Using a humidifier in your home when the heater is on and the air is dry. 

A few drops of salt water (saline) will loosen a plug of thick mucus. Put a
few drops in your tube and windpipe, then take a deep breath and cough to help
bring up the mucus.

Protect the hole in your neck with a cloth or tracheostomy cover when you go
outside. These covers can also help keep your clothes clean from mucus and
make your breathing sounds quieter.

DO NOT breathe in water, food, powder, or dust. When you take a shower, cover
the hole with a tracheostomy cover. You will not be able to go swimming.

To speak, you will need to cover the hole with your finger, a cap, or a
speaking valve.

Sometimes you can cap the tube. Then you might be able to speak normally and
breathe through your nose and mouth.

## Caring for Your Tracheostomy

Once the hole in your neck is not sore from the surgery, clean the hole with a
cotton swab or a cotton ball at least once a day to prevent infection.

The bandage (gauze dressing) between your tube and neck helps catch mucus. It
also keeps your tube from rubbing on your neck. Change the bandage when it is
dirty, at least once a day.

Change the ribbons (trach ties) that keep your tube in place if they get
dirty. Make sure you hold the tube in place when you change the ribbon. Be
sure you can fit 2 fingers under the ribbon to make sure it is not too tight.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have:

      * Fever or chills
      * Redness, swelling, or pain that is getting worse
      * Bleeding or drainage from the hole
      * Too much mucus that is hard to suction or cough up
      * Cough or shortness of breath, even after you suction your tube
      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Any new or unusual symptoms 

Call your local emergency number if your tracheostomy tube falls out and you
cannot replace it.

## Alternative Names

Respiratory failure - tracheostomy care; Ventilator - tracheostomy care;
Respiratory insufficiency - tracheostomy care

## References

Greenwood JC, Winters ME. Tracheostomy care. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

McGrath BA. Management of the day-to-day needs of the patient with a
tracheostomy and laryngectomy. In: McGrath B, ed. _Comprehensive Tracheostomy
Care: The National Tracheostomy Safety Project Manual_. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley
Blackwell; 2014:chap 5.

## Patient Instructions

      * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Critical Care
      * Tracheal Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

