Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003449.htm    
                                Description: Endotracheal intubation is a medical procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe (trachea) through the mouth or nose. In most emergency situations, it is placed through the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endotracheal intubation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003449.htm

# Endotracheal intubation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endotracheal intubation is a medical procedure in which a tube is placed into
the windpipe (trachea) through the mouth or nose. In most emergency
situations, it is placed through the mouth.

## Description

Whether you are awake (conscious) or not awake (unconscious), you will be
given medicine to make it easier and more comfortable to insert the tube. You
may also get medicine to relax.

The provider will insert a device called a laryngoscope to be able to view the
vocal cords and the upper part of the windpipe.

If the procedure is being done to help with breathing, a tube is then inserted
into the windpipe and past the vocal cords to just above the spot above where
the trachea branches into the lungs. The tube can then be used to connect with
a mechanical ventilator to assist breathing.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Endotracheal intubation is done to:

      * Keep the airway open in order to give oxygen, medicine, or anesthesia.
      * Support breathing in certain illnesses, such as pneumonia, emphysema, heart failure, collapsed lung or severe trauma.
      * Remove blockages from the airway.
      * Allow the provider to get a better view of the upper airway.
      * Protect the lungs in people who are unable to protect their airway and are at risk for breathing in fluid (aspiration). This includes people with certain types of strokes, overdoses, or massive bleeding from the esophagus or stomach.

## Risks

Risks include:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Trauma to the voice box (larynx), thyroid gland, vocal cords and windpipe (trachea), or esophagus
      * Puncture or tearing (perforation) of body parts in the chest cavity, leading to lung collapseÂ   
  

## Before the Procedure

The procedure is most often done in emergency situations, so there are no
steps you can take to prepare.

## After the Procedure

You will be in the hospital to monitor your breathing and your blood oxygen
levels. You may be given oxygen or placed on a breathing machine. If you are
awake, your health care provider may give you medicine to reduce your anxiety
or discomfort.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook will depend on the reason the procedure needed to be done.

## Alternative Names

Intubation - endotracheal

## References

Driver BE, Reardon RF. Tracheal intubation. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

Hartman ME, Cheifetz IM. Pediatric emergencies and resuscitation. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 67.

Hagberg CA, Artime CA. Airway management in the adult. In: Miller RD, ed.
_Miller's Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
55.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tracheal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrachealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tracheal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

