Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001055.htm    
                                Description: Dental cavities are holes (or structural damage) in the teeth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental cavities

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001055.htm

# Dental cavities

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dental cavities are holes (or structural damage) in the teeth.

## Causes

Tooth decay is a common disorder, second only to the common cold. It most
often occurs in children and young adults, but it can affect anyone. Tooth
decay is a common cause of tooth loss in younger people.

Bacteria are normally found in your mouth. These bacteria change foods,
especially sugar and starch, into acids. Bacteria, acid, food pieces, and
saliva combine in the mouth to form a sticky substance called plaque. Plaque
sticks to the teeth. It is most common on the back molars, just above the gum
line on all teeth, and at the edges of fillings.

Plaque that is not removed from the teeth turns into a substance called
tartar, or calculus. Plaque and tartar irritate the gums, resulting in
gingivitis and periodontitis.

Plaque begins to build up on teeth within 20 minutes after eating. If it is
not removed, it will harden and turn into tartar (calculus).

The acids in plaque damage the enamel covering your teeth. It also creates
holes in the tooth called cavities. Cavities usually do not hurt, unless they
grow very large and affect nerves or cause a tooth fracture. An untreated
cavity can lead to an infection in the tooth called a tooth abscess. Untreated
tooth decay also destroys the inside of the tooth (pulp). This requires more
extensive treatment, or possibly removal of the tooth.

Carbohydrates (sugars and starches) increase the risk of tooth decay. Sticky
foods are more harmful than non-sticky foods because they remain on the teeth.
Frequent snacking increases the time that acids are in contact with the
surface of the tooth.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. If symptoms occur, they may include:

      * Tooth pain or achy feeling, particularly after sweet or hot or cold foods and drinks
      * Visible pits or holes in the teeth

## Exams and Tests

Most cavities are discovered in the early stages during routine dental
checkups.

A dental exam may show that the surface of the tooth is soft.

Dental x-rays may show some cavities before they can be seen just by just
looking at the teeth.

## Treatment

Treatment can help prevent tooth damage from leading to cavities.

Treatment may involve:

      * Fillings
      * Crowns
      * Root canals

Dentists fill teeth by removing the decayed tooth material with a drill and
replacing it with a material such as composite resin, glass ionomer, or
amalgam. Composite resin more closely match the natural tooth appearance, and
are preferred for front teeth. There is a trend to use high strength composite
resin in the back teeth as well.

Crowns or "caps" are used if tooth decay is extensive and there is limited
tooth structure, which may cause weakened teeth. Large fillings and weak teeth
increase the risk of the tooth breaking. The decayed or weakened area is
removed and repaired. A crown is fitted over the remainder of the tooth.
Crowns are often made of gold, porcelain, or porcelain attached to metal.

A root canal is recommended if the nerve in a tooth dies from decay or injury.
The center of the tooth, including the nerve and blood vessel tissue (pulp),
is removed along with decayed portions of the tooth. The roots are filled with
a sealing material. The tooth is filled, and a crown is needed in most cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment often saves the tooth. Treatment is less painful and less expensive
if it is done early.

You may need numbing medicine and prescription pain medicines to relieve pain
during or after dental work.

Nitrous oxide with local anesthetic or other medicines may be an option if you
are afraid of dental treatments.

## Possible Complications

Dental cavities can lead to:

      * Discomfort or pain
      * Fractured tooth
      * Inability to bite down on tooth
      * Tooth abscess
      * Tooth sensitivity
      * Infection of the bone
      * Bone loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist if you have any tooth pain or discomfort.

See your dentist for a routine cleaning and exam if you have not had one in
the last 6 months.

## Prevention

Oral hygiene is necessary to prevent cavities. This consists of regular
professional cleaning (every 6 months), brushing at least twice a day, and
flossing at least daily. X-rays may be taken yearly to detect possible cavity
development in high-risk areas of the mouth.

It is best to eat chewy, sticky foods (such as dried fruit or candy) as part
of a meal rather than alone as a snack. If possible, brush your teeth or rinse
your mouth with water after eating these foods. Limit snacking, since it
creates a constant supply of acid in your mouth. Avoid constant sipping of
sugary drinks or frequent sucking on candy and mints.

Dental sealants can prevent some cavities. Sealants are thin plastic-like
coatings applied to the chewing surfaces of the molars. This coating prevents
the buildup of plaque in the deep grooves on these surfaces. Sealants are
often applied on the teeth of children, shortly after their molars come in.
Older people may also benefit from tooth sealants.

Fluoride is often recommended to protect against tooth decay. People who get
fluoride in their drinking water or by taking fluoride supplements have less
tooth decay.

Topical fluoride is also recommended to protect the surface of the teeth. This
may include a fluoride toothpaste or mouthwash. Many dentists include
application of topical fluoride solutions (applied to a localized area of the
teeth) as part of routine visits.

## Alternative Names

Caries; Tooth decay; Cavities - tooth

## Images

      * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy
      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1136t.jpg)Gingivitis
      * ![Baby bottle tooth decay](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9090t.jpg)Baby bottle tooth decay

## References

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Prevention of dental caries in
children from birth through age 5 years: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _Pediatrics_. 2014;133(6):1102-1111. PMID: 24799546
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24799546.

Tinanoff N. Dental caries. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 312.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth Decay](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDecay_thumb.jpg)Tooth Decay
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

