Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000779.htm    
                                Description: Dental sealants are a thin resin coating that dentists apply to the grooves of the permanent back teeth, the molars and premolars. Sealants are applied to help prevent cavities.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental sealants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000779.htm

# Dental sealants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dental sealants are a thin resin coating that dentists apply to the grooves of
the permanent back teeth, the molars and premolars. Sealants are applied to
help prevent cavities.

## Why Sealants are Used

The grooves on the top of molars and premolars are deep and can be hard to
clean with a toothbrush. Bacteria can build up in the grooves and cause
cavities.

Dental sealants can help:

      * Keep food, acids, and plaque from sitting in the grooves of the molars and premolars
      * Prevent decay and cavities
      * Save time, money, and the discomfort of getting a cavity filled 

Children are most at risk for cavities on molars. Sealants can help protect
permanent molars. Permanent molars come in when children are about 6 years old
and then again when they are 12 years old. Getting sealants soon after the
molars have come in will help protect them from cavities.

Adults who do not have cavities or decay on their molars can also get
sealants.

Sealants last about 5 to 10 years. Your dentist should check them at each
visit in case a sealant needs to be replaced.

## How Dental Sealants are Applied

Your dentist applies sealants on the molars in a few quick steps. There is no
drilling or scraping of the molars. Your dentist will:

      * Clean the tops of the molars and premolars.
      * Put a conditioning acid gel on the top of the molar for a few seconds.
      * Rinse and dry the tooth surface.
      * Paint the sealant into the grooves of the tooth.
      * Shine a special light on the sealant to help it dry and harden. This takes about 10 to 30 seconds.

## Cost and Insurance Coverage

Ask your dental office about the cost of dental sealants. The cost of dental
sealants is usually priced per tooth.

      * Check with your insurance plan to see if the cost of sealants is covered. Many plans cover sealants.
      * Some plans have limits on coverage. For example, sealants may be covered only up to a certain age.

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call the dentist if you:

      * Feel that your bite is not right
      * Lose your sealant
      * Notice any staining or discoloration around the sealant 

## Alternative Names

Pit and fissure sealants

## References

American Dental Association website. Dental sealants. www.ada.org/en/member-
center/oral-health-topics/dental-sealants. Updated October 19, 2016. Accessed
November 20, 2018.

National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research website. Seal out tooth
decay. www.nidcr.nih.gov/sites/default/files/2017-11/seal-out-tooth-decay-
parents.pdf. Updated August 2017. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Sanders BJ. Pit-and-fissure sealants and preventive resin restorations. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Richard Port, DDS, MS, Diplomate: American Boards of Orthodontics
and Pediatric Dentistry, Private Practice, Orthodontics, Vernon Hills and
Gurnee, IL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Tooth Decay

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

