Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002420.htm    
                                Description: Fluoride occurs naturally in the body as calcium fluoride. Calcium fluoride is mostly found in the bones and teeth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fluoride in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002420.htm

# Fluoride in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fluoride occurs naturally in the body as calcium fluoride. Calcium fluoride is
mostly found in the bones and teeth.

## Function

Small amounts of fluoride help reduce tooth decay. Adding fluoride to tap
water (called fluoridation) helps reduce cavities in children by more than
half.

## Food Sources

Fluoridated water is found in most community water systems. (Well water often
does not contain enough fluoride.)

Food prepared in fluoridated water contains fluoride. Natural sodium fluoride
is in the ocean, so most seafood contains fluoride. Tea and gelatin also
contain fluoride.

Infants can only get fluoride through drinking infant formulas. Breast milk
has a negligible amount of fluoride in it.

## Side Effects

A lack (deficiency) of fluoride may lead to increased cavities, and weak bones
and teeth.

Too much fluoride in the diet is very rare. Rarely, infants who get too much
fluoride before their teeth have broken through the gums have changes in the
enamel that covers the teeth. Faint white lines or streaks may appear, but
they are usually not easy to see.

## Recommendations

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine recommends the
following dietary intake for fluoride:

These values are adequate intakes (AI), not recommended daily allowances
(RDAs).Â

Infants

      * 0 to 6 months: 0.01 milligrams per day (mg/day)
      * 7 to 12 months: 0.5 mg/day 

Children

      * 1 to 3 years: 0.7 mg/day
      * 4 to 8 years: 1.0 mg/day
      * 9 to 13 years: 2.0 mg/day 

Adolescents and Adults

      * Males ages 14 to 18 years: 3.0 mg/day
      * Males over 18 years: 4.0 mg/day
      * Females over 14 years: 3.0 mg/day 

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods from the United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA) MyPlate food guide plate.

Specific recommendations depend on age and gender. Ask your health care
provider which amount is best for you.

To help make sure infants and children do not get too much fluoride:

      * Ask your provider about the type of water to use in concentrated or powdered formulas.
      * DO NOT use any fluoride supplement without talking to your provider.
      * Avoid using fluoride toothpaste in infants younger than 2 years.
      * Use only a pea-sized amount of fluoride toothpaste in children older than 2 years.
      * Avoid fluoride mouth rinses in children younger than 6 years. 

## Alternative Names

Diet - fluoride

## References

Berg J, Gerweck C, Hujoel PP, et al; American Dental Association Council on
Scientific Affairs Expert Panel on Fluoride Intake From Infant Formula and
Fluorosis. Evidence-based clinical recommendations regarding fluoride intake
from reconstituted infant formula and enamel fluorosis: a report of the
American Dental Association Council on Scientific Affairs. _J Am Dent Assoc_.
2011;142(1):79-87. PMID: 21243832 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21243832.

Chin JR, Kowolik JE, Stookey GK. Dental caries in the child and adolescent.
In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry for the Child and
Adolescent_. 10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

Palmer CA, Gilbert JA; Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Position of the
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: the impact of fluoride on health. _J Acad
Nutr Diet_. 2012;112(9):1443-1453. PMID: 22939444
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22939444.

Ramu A, Neild P. Diet and nutrition. In: Naish J, Syndercombe Court D, eds.
_Medical Sciences_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 4/30/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Dental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Dental Health _Read more_

![Tooth Decay](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDecay_thumb.jpg)Tooth Decay
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

