

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Surveillance of Bacterial Foodborne Illnesses (Enteric Diseases)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# National _Salmonella_ Surveillance

Minus

Related Pages

National _Salmonella_ surveillance data are collected through passive
surveillance of laboratory-confirmed human _Salmonella_ isolates. Clinical
diagnostic laboratories submit _Salmonella_ isolates to state and territorial
public health laboratories, where they are confirmed and serotyped according
to the Kauffmann-White scheme.

Unusual or untypable serotypes are forwarded to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention's (CDC) National _Salmonella_ Reference Laboratory at
the Enteric Diseases Laboratory Branch (EDLB) for further characterization or
confirmation; results are reported back to state and territorial public health
laboratories. State and territorial public health laboratories send reports
electronically to CDC through a variety of mechanisms.

The Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED) in
the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases maintains
the national Salmonella surveillance data in Laboratory-based Enteric Disease
Surveillance (LEDS) system. The annual summaries of these data are the only
regularly published national source of serotype information for Salmonella
(2). Initially, all surveillance data were transmitted through the Public
Health Laboratory Information System (PHLIS), but over time, it has been
replaced by the LEDS system. More about _Salmonella_.

###  _Salmonella_ Atlas

![Salmonella Atlas cover page](/salmonella/images/salmonella-atlas-300px.jpg)

An Atlas of _Salmonella_ in the United States, 1968-2011 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 248
pages] is the first-of-its-kind report that charts over 40 years of
laboratory-confirmed surveillance data on 32 _Salmonell_ a serotypes.

The report includes analyses by age, sex, season, and geography, down to the
county level. This is the first time CDC has posted these data online in a
downloadable format.

More

### Surveillance Overview

National _Salmonella_ Surveillance Overview Cdc-pdf[PDF - 12 pages]

Annual Summaries

                    * 2016 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 87 pages]
                      * Supplement: Animals isolate report, National Veterinary Services Laboratories, USDA Cdc-pdf[PDF - 4 pages]
                    * 2015 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 85 pages]
                    * 2014 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 85 pages]
                    * 2013 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 89 pages]
                    * 2012 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 21 pages], Appendix Cdc-pdf[PDF - 63 pages]
                    * 2011 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 18 pages], Appendix Cdc-pdf[PDF - 62 pages]
                    * 2010 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 19 pages], Appendix Cdc-pdf[PDF - 62 pages]
                    * 2009 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 4 pages], Summary Tables Cdc-pdf[PDF - 96 pages]
                    * 2008 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 5 pages], Summary Tables Cdc-pdf[PDF - 96 pages]
                    * 2007 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 5 pages], Summary Tables Cdc-pdf[PDF - 93 pages]

Page last reviewed: May 23, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID) , Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases
(DFWED)

home National Surveillance

                    * About National Surveillance
                    * National _Salmonella_ Surveillance
                    * National _Shigella_ Surveillance
                    * National _Escherichia coli_ (STEC) Surveillance
                    * National _Listeria_ Surveillance
                    * National Cholera and Other _Vibrio_ Illness Surveillance (COVIS)
                    * National Typhoid and Paratyphoid Fever Surveillance
                    * National Botulism Surveillance

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

Related Links

                    * Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)
                    * CDC and Food Safety
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness in the U.S.
                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * FDAExternal file_external 
                    * USDA/FSISExternal file_external 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

