Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000721.htm    
                                Description: Tooth decay is a serious problem for some children. Decay in the upper and lower front teeth are the most common problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tooth decay - early childhood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000721.htm

# Tooth decay - early childhood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tooth decay is a serious problem for some children. Decay in the upper and
lower front teeth are the most common problems.

## Keeping Teeth Healthy

Your child needs strong, healthy baby teeth to chew food and to talk. Baby
teeth also make space in children's jaws for their adult teeth to grow in
straight.

Foods and drinks with sugar that sit in your child's mouth cause tooth decay.
Milk, formula, and juice all have sugar in them. A lot of snacks children eat
also have sugar in them.

      * When children drink or eat sugary things, sugar coats their teeth.
      * Sleeping or walking around with a bottle or sippy cup with milk or juice keeps sugar in your child's mouth.
      * Sugar feeds the natural forming bacteria in your child's mouth.
      * Bacteria produce acid.
      * Acid contributes to tooth decay. 

## Preventing Tooth Decay

To prevent tooth decay, consider breastfeeding your baby. Breast milk by
itself is the best food for your baby. It keeps the inside of your baby's
mouth healthy and prevents tooth decay.

If you are bottle-feeding your baby:

      * Give babies, ages newborn to 12 months, only formula to drink in bottles.
      * Remove the bottle from your child's mouth or hands when your child falls asleep.
      * Put your child to bed with a bottle of water only. DO NOT put your baby to bed with a bottle of juice, milk, or other sweet drinks.
      * Teach your baby to drink from a cup at 6 months of age. Stop using a bottle for your babies when they are 12 to 14 months old.
      * DO NOT fill your child's bottle with drinks that are high in sugar, such as punch or soft drinks.
      * DO NOT let your child walk around with a bottle of juice or milk.
      * DO NOT let your baby suck on a pacifier all the time. DO NOT dip your child's pacifier in honey, sugar, or syrup. 

## Caring for Your Child's Teeth

Check your child's teeth regularly.

      * After each feeding, gently wipe your baby's teeth and gums with a clean washcloth or gauze to remove plaque.
      * Begin brushing as soon as your child has teeth.
      * Create a routine. For instance, brush your teeth together at bedtime.

If you have infants or toddlers, use a pea-size amount of non-fluoridated
toothpaste on a washcloth to gently rub their teeth. When your children become
older and can spit out all of the toothpaste after brushing, use a pea-size
amount of fluoridated toothpaste on their toothbrushes with soft, nylon
bristles to clean their teeth.

Floss your child's teeth when all teeth of your baby come in. This is usually
by the time they are 2 Â½ years old.

If your baby is 6 months or older, they need fluoride to keep their teeth
healthy.

      * Use fluoridated water from the tap.
      * Give your baby a fluoride supplement if you drink well water or water without fluoride.
      * Make sure any bottled water you use has fluoride.

Feed your children foods that contain vitamins and minerals to strengthen
their teeth.

Take your children to the dentist when all their baby teeth have come in or at
age 2 or 3, whichever comes first.

## Alternative Names

Bottle mouth; Bottle carries; Baby bottle tooth decay; Early childhood caries
(ECC)

## Images

      * ![Development of baby teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1138t.jpg)Development of baby teeth
      * ![Baby bottle tooth decay](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9090t.jpg)Baby bottle tooth decay

## References

Hughes CV, Dean JA. Mechanical and chemotherapeutic home oral hygiene. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry of the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Martin B, Baumhardt H, D'Alesio A, Woods K. Oral disorders. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Tinanoff N. Dental caries. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 312.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Child Dental Health
      * Tooth Decay

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

