Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000944.htm    
                                Description: Learning how to use the toilet is a big milestone in your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toilet training tips

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000944.htm

# Toilet training tips

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Learning how to use the toilet is a big milestone in your child's life. You'll
make the process easier for everyone if you wait until your child is ready
before attempting to toilet train. A dose of patience and a sense of humor
also help.

## When to Start Training

Most children start to show signs that they are ready for toilet training
between ages 18 and 30 months. Before 18 months, most children can't fully
control their bladder and bowel muscles. Your child will let you know in their
own way that they are ready to start toilet training. Children are ready when
they:

      * Show interest in the toilet or in wearing underpants
      * Express through words or expressions that they need to go to the bathroom
      * Hint that the diaper is wet or dirty
      * Feel uncomfortable if the diaper gets dirty and try to remove it without help
      * Stay dry for at least 2 hours during the day
      * Can pull down their pants and pull them back up
      * Can understand and follow basic instructions 

It's a good idea to choose a time when you don't have other major events
planned, such as a vacation, a big move, or a work project that will require
extra time from you.

Don't push your child to learn too quickly. If your child feels pressure to
potty train before they are ready, it may take longer for them to learn. If
your child resists the training, it means they aren't ready yet. So back off
and wait a few weeks before trying again.

## Getting Ready

To start potty training you will need to:

      * Buy a training potty seat and potty chair - you may need more than one if you have bathrooms or play areas on different levels of the house.
      * Place the potty chair near your child's play area so they can see and touch it.
      * Establish a routine. Once a day, have your child sit on the potty fully clothed. Never force them to sit on it, and let them get off it when they want to.
      * Once they are comfortable sitting on the chair, have them sit on it without diapers and pants. Show them how to pull down their pants before getting on the potty.
      * Children learn by watching others. Let your child watch you or their siblings use the toilet and let them practice flushing it.
      * Help your child know how to talk about the bathroom using simple terms like "poop" and "pee."

## Teaching Your Child to Use the Toilet

Once your child is comfortable sitting on the potty chair without diapers, you
can start to show them how to use it.

      * Put stool from their diaper into the potty chair.
      * Have them watch while you transfer the stool from the potty chair into the toilet.
      * Have them flush the toilet and watch as it flushes. This will help them learn that the toilet is where poop goes.
      * Be alert for when your child signals that they might need to use toilet. Take your child to the potty quickly and praise your child for telling you.
      * Teach your child to stop what they are doing and go to the potty when they feel like they need to go to the bathroom.
      * Stay with your child when they are sitting on the potty. Reading a book or talking to them may help them relax.
      * Teach your child to wipe themselves after passing stool. Teach girls to wipe from front to back to help prevent stool from getting near the vagina.
      * Be sure your child washes their hands properly every time after using the toilet.
      * Praise your child every time they go to the toilet, even if all they do is sit there. Your goal is to help them connect the feelings of needing to go to the bathroom with going to the toilet and using it.
      * Once your child has learned how to use the toilet pretty regularly, you may want to try using pull-up training pants. That way your child can get in and out of them without help. 

Most children take about 3 to 6 months to learn how to use the toilet. Girls
usually learn to use the toilet faster than boys. Children commonly remain in
diapers till about age 2 to 3 years old.

Even after staying dry during the day, most children need more time to be able
to sleep through the night without wetting the bed. This is the last stage of
toilet training. It's a good idea to get a water-proof mattress pad while your
child learns nighttime control.

## Accidents Will Happen

Expect that your child will have accidents as they learn to use the toilet.
It's just part of the process. Sometimes, even after the training, accidents
may occur during the daytime too.

When these events occur it's important to:

      * Stay calm.
      * Clean up and gently remind your child to use the toilet the next time. Never scold your child.
      * Reassure your child if they get upset. 

To prevent such events you can:

      * Ask your child from time to time if they want to go to toilet. Most children need to go about an hour or so after a meal or after drinking a lot of fluids.
      * Get absorbent underwear for your child if they have frequent accidents. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the doctor if your child:

      * Has been potty trained earlier but is having more accidents now
      * Does not use the toilet even after 4 years of age
      * Has pain with urination or stools
      * Often has wetting issues -- this could be a sign of a urinary infection 

## Alternative Names

Potty training

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Creating a toilet training plan.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/toddler/toilet-
training/pages/Creating-a-Toilet-Training-Plan.aspx. Updated November 2, 2009.
Accessed December 10, 2018.

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Toilet training and the older child.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/toddler/toilet-
training/Pages/Toilet-Training-and-the-Older-Child.aspx. Updated November 2,
2009. Accessed December 10, 2018.

Elder JS. Enuresis and voiding dysfunction. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 543.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Toilet Training

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

