Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000164.htm    
                                Description: Enteral feeding is a way to feed your child using a feeding tube. You will learn how to care for the tube and the skin, flush the tube, and set up the bolus or pump feedings. This article will help you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000164.htm

# Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enteral feeding is a way to feed your child using a feeding tube. You will
learn how to care for the tube and the skin, flush the tube, and set up the
bolus or pump feedings. This article will help you manage minor problems that
may occur with feedings.

## What to Expect at Home

Enteral feeding is a way to feed your child using a feeding tube. Enteral
feedings will become easier for you to do with practice. Your health care
provider will go over all of the steps you should follow to deliver the
feedings.

You will learn how to care for the tube and the skin, flush the tube, and set
up the bolus or pump feedings.

Sometimes a feeding does not go as planned, and you may have a minor problem.
Your provider will go over all of the things that can happen and what you
should do.

## What Should I Watch For?

Follow your instructions on how to solve problems if they come up. Below are
some general guidelines.

If the tube is clogged or plugged:

      * Flush the tube with warm water.
      * If you have a nasogastric tube, remove and replace the tube (you will need to measure again).
      * Use a special lubricant (ClogZapper) if your provider has told you to use one.
      * Make sure any medicines are crushed properly to prevent clogging. 

If the child coughs or gags when you insert the nasogastric tube:

      * Pinch the tube, and pull it out.
      * Comfort your child, and then try again.
      * Make sure you are inserting the tube the right way.
      * Make sure your child is sitting up.
      * Check the tube placement. 

If your child has diarrhea and cramping:

      * Make sure the formula is mixed properly and warm.
      * DO NOT use formula that has been hanging for feeding for more than 4 hours.
      * Slow the feeding rate or take a short break. (Make sure you flush the tube with warm water in between breaks.)
      * Check with your provider about antibiotics or other medicines that may be causing it.
      * Start feeding when your child feels better. 

If your child has an upset stomach or is vomiting:

      * Make sure the formula is mixed properly and warm.
      * Make sure your child is sitting up during feedings.
      * DO NOT use formula that has been hanging for feeding for more than 4 hours.
      * Slow the feeding rate or take a short break. (Make sure you flush the tube with warm water in between breaks.)
      * Start feeding when your child feels better. 

If your child is constipated:

      * Take a break from feeding.
      * Check with your provider about choice of formula and adding more fiber. 

If your child is dried out (dehydrated), ask your provider about changing
formula or adding additional water.

If your child is losing weight, ask your provider about changing formula or
adding more feedings.

If your child has a nasogastric tube and the skin is irritated:

      * Keep the area around the nose clean and dry.
      * Tape down over the nose, not up.
      * Switch nostrils at each feeding.
      * Ask your doctor about a smaller tube. 

If your child's Corpak feeding tube falls out, call your child's provider. DO
NOT replace it yourself.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you notice your child has:

      * Fever
      * Diarrhea, cramping, or bloating that does not go away
      * Excessive crying, and your child is hard to console
      * Nausea or vomits frequently
      * Weight loss
      * Constipation
      * Skin irritation 

If your child has trouble breathing, call 911.

## References

Collins S, Mills D, Steinhorn DM. Nutritional support in children. In: Vincent
J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

Mcclave SA. Enteral nutrition. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 216.

Shapiro JM, LeLeiko NS, Pinkos BA. Enteral nutrition. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS,
Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 89.

## Read More

      * Cerebral palsy
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Esophageal cancer
      * Failure to thrive
      * HIV/AIDS

## Patient Instructions

      * Crohn disease - discharge
      * Pancreatitis - discharge
      * Swallowing problems 
      * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

