Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000462.htm    
                                Description: A peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) is a long, thin tube that goes into your body through a vein in your upper arm. The end of this catheter goes into a large vein near your heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripherally inserted central catheter - dressing change

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000462.htm

# Peripherally inserted central catheter - dressing change

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) is a long, thin tube that goes
into your body through a vein in your upper arm. The end of this catheter goes
into a large vein near your heart.

At home you will need to change the dressing that protects the catheter site.
A nurse will show how to change the dressing. Use the information below to
help remind you of the steps.

## What to Expect at Home

The PICC carries nutrients and medicines into your body. It may also be used
to draw blood when you need to have blood tests.

## Dressing Changes

A dressing is a special bandage that blocks germs and keeps your catheter site
dry and clean. You should change the dressing about once a week. You need to
change it sooner if it becomes loose or gets wet or dirty.

Since a PICC is placed in one of your arms and you need two hands to change
the dressing, it is best to have someone help you with the dressing change.
Your nurse will teach you how your dressing should be changed. Have the person
who helps you also watch and listen to the nurse's instructions.

Your doctor has given you a prescription for the supplies you need. You can
buy these items at a medical supply store. It helps to know the name of your
catheter and what company makes it. Write this information down and keep it
handy.

## Changing Your Dressings

The information below outlines the steps for changing your dressing. Follow
any additional instructions your health care provider gives you.

To change the dressing, you need:

      * Sterile gloves
      * A face mask
      * Cleaning solution (such as chlorhexidine) in a single-use small applicator
      * Special sponges or wipes that contain a cleaning agent, such as chlorhexidine
      * A special patch called a Biopatch
      * A clear barrier bandage, either Tegaderm or Covaderm
      * Three pieces of 1-inch (2.5 centimeters) wide tape, 4 inches (10 centimeters) long (with 1 of the pieces torn in half, lengthwise) 

If you have been prescribed a dressing change kit, follow the instructions for
using the supplies in your kit.

Prepare to change your dressing in a sterile (very clean) way:

      * Wash your hands for 30 seconds with soap and water. Be sure to wash between your fingers and under your nails.
      * Dry your hands with a clean paper towel.
      * Set up the supplies on a clean surface, on a new paper towel. 

Remove the dressing and check your skin:

      * Put on the face mask and a pair of sterile gloves.
      * Gently peel off the old dressing and Biopatch. DO NOT pull or touch the catheter where it comes out of your arm.
      * Throw away the old dressing and gloves.
      * Wash your hands and put on a new pair of sterile gloves.
      * Check your skin for redness, swelling, bleeding, or any other drainage around the catheter. 

Clean the area and catheter:

      * Use one special wipe to clean the catheter.
      * Use the other wipe to clean the catheter, slowly working away from where it comes out of your arm.
      * Clean your skin around the site with the sponge and cleaning solution for 30 seconds.
      * Let the area air dry. 

To place a new dressing:

      * Place the new Biopatch over the area where the catheter enters the skin. Keep the grid side up and the white side touching the skin.
      * If you have been told to do so, apply a skin prep where the edges of the dressing will be.
      * Coil the catheter. (This is not possible with all catheters.)
      * Peel the backing from the clear plastic bandage (Tegaderm or Covaderm) and place the bandage over the catheter. 

Tape the catheter to secure it:

      * Place one piece of the 1-inch (2.5 centimeters) tape over the catheter at the edge of the clear plastic bandage.
      * Place another piece of the tape around the catheter in a butterfly pattern.
      * Place the third piece of tape over the butterfly pattern. 

Throw away the face mask and gloves and wash your hands when done. Write down
the date you changed your dressing.

## Other Care

Keep all the clamps on your catheter closed at all times. If instructed,
change the caps (ports) at the end of the catheter when you change your
dressing and after blood draws.

It is usually OK to take showers and baths several days after your catheter is
put in place. Ask your provider how long to wait. When you do shower or bathe,
make sure the dressing is secure and your catheter site stays dry. DO NOT let
the catheter site go under water if you are soaking in a bathtub.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Bleeding, redness, or swelling at the site
      * Dizziness
      * Fever or chills
      * Hard time breathing
      * Leaking from the catheter, or the catheter is cut or cracked
      * Pain or swelling near the catheter site, or in your neck, face, chest, or arm
      * Trouble flushing your catheter or changing your dressing

Also call your provider if your catheter:

      * Is coming out of your vein
      * Seems blocked

## Alternative Names

PICC - dressing change

## References

Huang FW, Abrahm JL. Indwelling access devices. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ Jr,
Silberstein LE, Heslop H, Weitz J, Anastasi J, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 89.

Mansour JC, Neiderhuber JE. Establishing and maintaining vascular access. In:
Neiderhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 26.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Central vascular
access devices. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M,
eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York,
NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Critical Care
      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

