Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000177.htm    
                                Description: Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is a method of feeding that bypasses the gastrointestinal tract. A special formula given through a vein provides most of the nutrients the body needs. The method is used    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Total parenteral nutrition

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000177.htm

# Total parenteral nutrition

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is a method of feeding that bypasses the
gastrointestinal tract. A special formula given through a vein provides most
of the nutrients the body needs. The method is used when someone can't or
shouldn't receive feedings or fluids by mouth.

You'll need to learn how to do TPN feedings at home. You'll also need to know
how to care for the tube (catheter) and the skin where the catheter enters the
body.

Follow any specific instructions your nurse gives you. Use the information
below as a reminder of what to do.

## What to Expect at Home

Your doctor will select the right amount of calories and TPN solution.
Sometimes, you can also eat and drink while getting nutrition from TPN.

Your nurse will teach you how to:

      * Take care of the catheter and skin
      * Operate the pump
      * Flush the catheter
      * Deliver the TPN formula and any medicine through the catheter

It is very important to wash your hands well and handle supplies as your nurse
told you, to prevent infection.

You will also have regular blood tests to make sure the TPN is giving you the
right nutrition.

## Preventing Infection

Keeping hands and surfaces free of germs and bacteria will prevent infection.
Before you start TPN, make sure the tables and surfaces where you will put
your supplies have been washed and dried. Or, place a clean towel over the
surface. You will need this clean surface for all of the supplies.

Keep pets as well as people who are sick away. Try not to cough or sneeze on
your work surfaces.

Wash your hands thoroughly with an antibacterial soap before TPN infusion.
Turn on the water, wet your hands and wrists and lather up a good amount of
soap all over for at least 15 seconds. Then rinse your hands with fingertips
pointing down before drying with a clean paper towel.

## Getting the TPN Bag Ready

Keep your TPN solution in the refrigerator, and check the expiration date
before use. Throw it away if it is past the date.

DO NOT use the bag if it has leaks, change in color, or floating pieces. Call
the supply company to let them know if there is a problem with the solution.

To warm the solution, take it out of the refrigerator 2 to 4 hours before use.
You can also run warm (not hot) sink water over the bag. DO NOT heat it up in
the microwave.

Before you use the bag, you will add special medicines or vitamins. After
washing your hands and cleaning your surfaces:

      * Wipe the top of the cap or bottle with an antibacterial pad.
      * Remove the cover from the needle. Pull back the plunger to draw air into the syringe in the amount your nurse told you to use.
      * Insert the needle into the bottle and inject the air into the bottle by pushing on the plunger.
      * Pull back the plunger until you have the right amount in the syringe.
      * Wipe the TPN bag port with another antibacterial pad. Insert the needle and slowly push the plunger. Remove.
      * Gently move the bag to mix the medicines or vitamin into the solution.
      * Throw away the needle in the special sharps container. 

## Using the Pump for TPN

Your nurse will show you how to use the pump. You should also follow the
instructions that come with your pump. After you infuse your medicine or
vitamins:

      * You will need to wash your hands again and clean your work surfaces.
      * Gather all of your supplies and check the labels to make sure they are correct.
      * Remove the pump supplies and prepare the spike while keeping the ends clean.
      * Open the clamp and flush the tube with fluid. Make sure no air is present.
      * Attach the TPN bag to the pump according to the supplier's instructions.
      * Before the infusion, unclamp the line and flush with saline.
      * Twist the tubing into the injection cap and open all clamps.
      * The pump will show you the settings to continue.
      * You may be directed to flush the catheter with saline or heparin when you are finished. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you:

      * Have trouble with the pump or infusion
      * Have a fever or a change in your health 

## Alternative Names

Hyperalimentation; TPN; Malnourishment - TPN; Malnutrition - TPN

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Nutritional management
and enteral intubation. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L,
Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed.
New York, NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 16.

Ziegler TR. Malnutrition, nutritional assessment, and nutritional support in
adult hospitalized patients. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 217.

## Review Date 10/28/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

