Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000461.htm    
                                Description: A peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) is a long, thin tube that goes into your body through a vein in your upper arm. The end of this catheter goes into a large vein near your heart. Your health    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripherally inserted central catheter - insertion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000461.htm

# Peripherally inserted central catheter - insertion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) is a long, thin tube that goes
into your body through a vein in your upper arm. The end of this catheter goes
into a large vein near your heart. Your health care provider has determined
that you need a PICC. The information below tells you what to expect when the
PICC is inserted.

## What is a Peripherally Inserted Central Catheter (PICC)?

The PICC helps carry nutrients and medicines into your body. It is also used
to draw blood when you need to have blood tests.

A PICC is used when you need intravenous (IV) treatment over a long period of
time or if blood draws done the regular way have become difficult.

## How is a PICC Inserted?

The PICC insertion procedure is done in the radiology (x-ray) department or at
your hospital bedside. The steps to insert it are:

      * You lie on your back.
      * A tourniquet (strap) is tied around your arm near your shoulder.
      * Ultrasound pictures are used to choose the vein and guide the needle into your vein. Ultrasound looks inside your body with a device that is moved over your skin. It is painless.
      * The area where the needle is inserted is cleaned.
      * You get a shot of medicine to numb your skin. This may sting for a moment.
      * A needle is inserted, then a guide wire and the catheter. The guide wire and catheter are moved through your vein to the proper spot.
      * During this process, the needle puncture site is made a little larger with a scalpel. One or two stitches close it up afterward. This usually does not hurt. 

The catheter that was inserted is connected to another catheter that stays
outside your body. You will receive medicines and other fluids through this
catheter.

## After the Catheter is Placed

It is normal to have a little pain or swelling around the site for 2 or 3
weeks after the catheter is put in place. Take it easy. DO NOT lift anything
with that arm or do strenuous activity for about 2 weeks.

Take your temperature at the same time each day and write it down. Call your
provider if you develop a fever.

It is usually OK to take showers and baths several days after your catheter is
placed. Ask your provider how long to wait. When you do shower or bathe, make
sure the dressings are secure and your catheter site stays dry. DO NOT let the
catheter site go under water if you are soaking in a bathtub.

## Other Care

Your nurse will teach you how to take care of your catheter in order to keep
it working correctly and to help protect yourself from infection. This
includes flushing the catheter, changing the dressing, and giving yourself
medicines.

After some practice, taking care of your catheter gets easier. It is best to
have a friend, family member, caregiver, or nurse help you.

Your doctor will give you a prescription for the supplies you need. You can
buy these at a medical supply store. It will help to know the name of your
catheter and what company makes it. Write this information down and keep it
handy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Bleeding, redness, or swelling at the catheter site
      * Dizziness
      * Fever or chills
      * Hard time breathing
      * Leaking from the catheter, or the catheter is cut or cracked
      * Pain or swelling near the catheter site, or in your neck, face, chest, or arm
      * Trouble flushing your catheter or changing your dressing

Also call your provider if your catheter:

      * Is coming out of your arm
      * Seems blocked

## Alternative Names

PICC - insertion

## References

Herring W. Recognizing the correct placement of lines and tubes and their
potential complications: critical care radiology. In: Herring W, ed. _Learning
Radiology: Recognizing the Basics_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 10.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Central vascular
access devices. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M,
eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York,
NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 10/1/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Critical Care
      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

