Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000333.htm    
                                Description: Your child has a gastrostomy tube (G-tube, or PEG tube). This is a soft, plastic tube placed into your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastrostomy feeding tube - pump - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000333.htm

# Gastrostomy feeding tube - pump - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has a gastrostomy tube (G-tube, or PEG tube). This is a soft,
plastic tube placed into your child's stomach. It delivers nutrition (food)
and medicines until your child can chew and swallow.

You'll need to learn how to give your child feedings and how to care for the
G-tube. Follow any specific instructions your nurse gives you. Use the
information below as a reminder of what to do.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child's G-tube may be replaced by a button, called a Bard Button or MIC-
KEY, 3 to 8 weeks after surgery.

You will quickly get used to feeding your child through the tube, or button.
It will take about the same time as a regular feeding, around 20 to 30
minutes. These feedings will help your child grow strong and healthy.

Your doctor will tell you the right mix of formula or blended feedings to use,
and how often to feed your child. To warm the food, take it out of the
refrigerator 2 to 4 hours before use. DO NOT add more formula or solid foods
before you talk to your nurse.

Feeding bags should be changed every 24 hours. All of the equipment can be
cleaned with hot, soapy water and hung to dry.

Remember to wash your hands regularly to prevent the spread of germs. Take
good care of yourself as well, so that you can stay calm and positive, and
cope with stress.

## Caring for the G-tube Site

The skin around the G-tube needs to be changed 1 to 3 times a day with mild
soap and water. Try to remove any drainage or crusting on the skin and tube.
Be gentle. Dry the skin well with a clean towel.

The skin should heal in 2 to 3 weeks.

Your nurse may tell you to put a special absorbent pad or gauze around the
G-tube site. This should be changed at least daily or if it becomes wet or
soiled.

DO NOT use any ointments, powders, or sprays around the G-tube unless your
nurse says it is OK.

## Tips for Feeding Time With Your Child

Make sure your child is sitting up either in your arms or in a high chair.

If your child fusses or cries while feeding, pinch the tube with your fingers
to stop the feeding until your child is more calm and quiet.

Feeding time is a social, happy time. Make it pleasant and fun. Your child
will enjoy gentle talk and play.

Try to keep your child from pulling on the tube.

Since your child is not using their mouth yet, your doctor will discuss with
you other ways to allow your child to suck and develop mouth and jaw muscles.

## Feeding Your Child Using a Feeding Pump

Gather supplies:

      * Feeding pump (electronic or battery powered)
      * Feeding set that matches the feeding pump (includes a feeding bag, drip chamber, roller clamp, and long tube)
      * Extension set, for a Bard Button or MIC-KEY (this connects the button to the long tube on the feeding set) 

Your child's nurse will show you the best way to use your system without
getting air into the tubes. First:

      * Wash your hands well with soap and warm water.
      * Check that the formula or food is warm or room temperature. 

Next, follow these steps, and any steps your nurse gave you:

      * Start with the feeding set, close the roller clamp and fill the feeding bag with food. If a button is being used, connect the extension set to the end of the feeding set.
      * Hang the feeding bag high on a hook and squeeze the drip chamber below the bag to fill it at least half way with food.
      * Open the roller clamp so that the food fills the long tube, leaving no air in the tube.
      * Close the roller clamp.
      * Thread the long tube through the feeding pump. Follow the directions on the pump.
      * Insert the tip of the long tube into the G-tube and open the clamp. If a button is being used, open the flap and insert the tip of the extension set into the button.
      * Open the roller clamp and turn the feeding pump on. Make sure the pump is set to the rate ordered by your nurse. 

When the feeding is done, your nurse may recommend that you add water to the
bag and let the water flow through the feeding set to rinse it out.

For a G-tube, clamp the tube and close the roller clamp before disconnecting
the feeding set from the G-tube. For a button, close the clamp on the feeding
set, disconnect the extension set from the button, and close the flap on the
button.

The feeding bag should be changed every 24 hours. Food (formula) should not be
left in the bag for more than 4 hours. So, only put 4 hours (or less) worth of
food in the feeding bag at a time.

All of the equipment can be cleaned with warm, soapy water and hung to dry.

## Bloating after Feeding

If your child's belly becomes hard or swollen after a feeding, try venting or
"burping" the tube or button:

      * Attach an empty syringe to the G-tube and unclamp it to allow air to flow out.
      * Attach the extension set to the MIC-KEY button and open the tube to the air to release.
      * Ask your nurse for a special decompression tube for "burping" the Bard Button. 

## Giving Medicines

Sometimes, you need to give medicines to your child through the tube. Follow
these guidelines:

      * Give the medicines before a feeding so that they work better. You may also be told to give the medicines when your child's stomach is empty.
      * The medicine should be liquid, or finely crushed and dissolved in water, so that the tube does not get blocked. Check with your doctor or pharmacist on how to do this.
      * Always flush the tube with a little water between medicines. This will make sure that all the medicine goes in the stomach and is not left in the feeding tube. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's health care provider if your child:

      * Seems hungry after the feeding
      * Has diarrhea after feedings
      * Has a hard and swollen belly 1 hour after feedings
      * Seems to be in pain
      * Has changes in their condition
      * Is on new medicine
      * Is constipated and passing hard, dry stools 

Also call the provider if:

      * The feeding tube has come out and you do not know how to replace it.
      * There is leakage around the tube or system.
      * There is redness or irritation on the skin area around the tube. 

## Alternative Names

PEG tube feeding; PEG tube care; Feeding - gastrostomy tube - pump; G-tube -
pump; Gastrostomy button - pump; Bard Button - pump; MIC-KEY - pump

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Nutrtional management
and enteral intubation. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L,
Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed.
New York, NY: Pearson; 2017:chap 19.

Schattner MA, Grossman EB. Nutritional management. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 11/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

