Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002937.htm    
                                Description: A gastrostomy feeding tube insertion is the placement of a feeding tube through the skin and the stomach wall. It goes directly into the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Feeding tube insertion - gastrostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002937.htm

# Feeding tube insertion - gastrostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A gastrostomy feeding tube insertion is the placement of a feeding tube
through the skin and the stomach wall. It goes directly into the stomach.

## Description

Gastrostomy feeding tube (G-tube) insertion is done in part using a procedure
called endoscopy. This is a way of looking inside the body using a flexible
tube with a small camera on the end of it. The endoscope is inserted through
the mouth and down the esophagus, which leads to the stomach.

After the endoscopy tube is inserted, the skin over the left side of belly
(abdomen) area is cleaned and numbed. The doctor makes a small surgical cut in
this area. The G-tube is inserted through this cut into the stomach. The tube
is small, flexible, and hollow. The doctor uses stitches to close the stomach
around the tube.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Gastrostomy feeding tubes are put in for different reasons. They may be needed
for a short time or permanently. This procedure may be used for:

      * Babies with birth defects of the mouth, esophagus, or stomach (for example, esophageal atresia or tracheal esophageal fistula)
      * People who cannot swallow correctly
      * People who cannot take enough food by mouth to stay healthy
      * People who often breathe in food when eating 

## Risks

Risks for surgical or endoscopic feeding tube insertion are:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection 

## Before the Procedure

You will be given a sedative and a painkiller. In most cases, these medicines
are given through a vein (IV line) in your arm. You should feel no pain and
not remember the procedure.

A numbing medicine may be sprayed into your mouth to prevent the urge to cough
or gag when the endoscope is inserted. A mouth guard will be inserted to
protect your teeth and the endoscope.

Dentures must be removed.

## After the Procedure

This is most often a simple surgery with a good outlook. Follow any self-care
instructions you're given, including:

      * How to care for the skin around the tube
      * Signs and symptoms of infection
      * What to do if the tube is pulled out
      * Signs and symptoms of tube blockage
      * How to empty the stomach through the tube
      * How and what to feed through the tube
      * How to hide the tube under clothing
      * What normal activities can be continued

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The stomach and abdomen will heal in 5 to 7 days. Moderate pain can be treated
with medicine. Feedings will start slowly with clear liquids, and increase
slowly.

## Alternative Names

Gastrostomy tube insertion; G-tube insertion; PEG tube insertion; Stomach tube
insertion; Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube insertion

## Images

      * ![Gastrostomy tube placement - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/13947t.jpg)Gastrostomy tube placement - series

## References

Davis PW. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy placement and replacement. In:
Pfenninger JL, Fowler GC, eds. _Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary
Care_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2011:chap 200.

Kessel D, Robertson I. Treating gastrointestinal conditions. In: Kessel D,
Robertson I, eds. _Interventional Radiology: A Survival Guide_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nutritional
Support](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NutritionalSupport_thumb.jpg)Nutritional
Support _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

