Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000182.htm    
                                Description: A nasogastric tube (NG tube) is a special tube that carries food and medicine to the stomach through the nose. It can be used for all feedings or for giving a person extra calories.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasogastric feeding tube

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000182.htm

# Nasogastric feeding tube

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nasogastric tube (NG tube) is a special tube that carries food and medicine
to the stomach through the nose. It can be used for all feedings or for giving
a person extra calories.

You'll learn to take good care of the tubing and the skin around the nostrils
so that the skin doesn't get irritated.

Follow any specific instructions your nurse gives you. Use the information
below as a reminder of what to do.

## What to Expect at Home

If your child has an NG tube, try to keep your child from touching or pulling
on the tube.

After your nurse teaches you how to flush the tube and perform skin care
around the nose, set up a daily routine for these tasks.

## Flushing the Tube

Flushing the tube helps release any formula stuck to the inside of the tube.
Flush the tube after each feeding, or as often as your nurse recommends.

      * First, wash your hands well with soap and water.
      * After the feeding is finished, add warm water to the feeding syringe and let it flow by gravity.
      * If the water does not go through, try changing positions a bit or attach the plunger to the syringe, and gently push the plunger part-way. DO NOT press all the way down or press fast.
      * Remove the syringe.
      * Close the NG tube cap. 

## Taking Care of the Skin

Follow these general guidelines:

      * Clean the skin around the tube with warm water and a clean washcloth after each feeding. Remove any crust or secretions in the nose.
      * When removing a bandage or dressing from the nose, loosen it first with a bit of mineral oil or other lubricant. Then gently remove the bandage or dressing. Afterward, wash the mineral oil off the nose.
      * If you notice redness or irritation, try putting the tube in the other nostril, if your nurse taught you how to do this.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if any of the following occur:

      * There is redness, swelling and irritation in both nostrils
      * The tube keeps getting clogged and you are unable to unclog it with water
      * The tube falls out 
      * Vomiting
      * Stomach is bloated

## Alternative Names

Feeding - nasogastric tube; NG tube; Bolus feeding; Continuous pump feeding;
Gavage tube

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Nutritional management
and enteral intubation. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L,
Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed.
New York, NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 16.

Ziegler TR. Malnutrition, nutritional assessment, and nutritional support in
adult hospitalized patients. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 217.

## Patient Instructions

      * Crohn disease - discharge

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

