Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007235.htm    
                                Description: A feeding tube is a small, soft, plastic tube placed through the nose (NG) or mouth (OG) into the stomach. These tubes are used to provide feedings and medicines into the stomach until the baby can take    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Feeding tube - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007235.htm

# Feeding tube - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A feeding tube is a small, soft, plastic tube placed through the nose (NG) or
mouth (OG) into the stomach. These tubes are used to provide feedings and
medicines into the stomach until the baby can take food by mouth.

WHY IS A FEEDING TUBE USED?

Feeding from the breast or bottle requires strength and coordination. Sick or
premature babies may not be able to suck or swallow well enough to bottle or
breastfeed. Tube feedings allow the baby to get some or all of their feeding
into the stomach. This is the most efficient and safest way to provide good
nutrition. Oral medicines can also be given through the tube.

HOW IS A FEEDING TUBE PLACED?

A feeding tube is gently placed through the nose or mouth into the stomach. An
x-ray can confirm correct placement. In babies with feeding problems, the tip
of the tube may be placed past the stomach into the small intestine. This
provides slower, continuous feedings.

WHAT ARE THE RISKS OF A FEEDING TUBE?

Feeding tubes are generally very safe and effective. However, problems may
occur, even when the tube is placed properly. These include:

      * Irritation of the nose, mouth, or stomach, causing minor bleeding
      * Stuffy nose or infection of the nose if the tube is placed through the nose

If the tube is misplaced and not in the proper position, the baby may have
problems with:

      * An abnormally slow heart rate (bradycardia)
      * Breathing
      * Spitting up

In rare cases, the feeding tube can puncture the stomach.

## Alternative Names

Gavage tube - infants; OG - infants; NG - infants

## Images

      * ![Feeding tube](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21726t.jpg)Feeding tube

## References

George DE, Dokler ML. Tubes for enteric access. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay M,
eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Poindexter BB, Ehrenkranz RA. Nutrient requirements and provision of
nutritional support in the premature neonate. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA,
Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nutritional
Support](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NutritionalSupport_thumb.jpg)Nutritional
Support _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

