Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000181.htm    
                                Description: A jejunostomy tube (J-tube) is a soft, plastic tube placed through the skin of the abdomen into the midsection of the small intestine. The tube delivers food and medicine until the person is healthy enough    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jejunostomy feeding tube

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000181.htm

# Jejunostomy feeding tube

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A jejunostomy tube (J-tube) is a soft, plastic tube placed through the skin of
the abdomen into the midsection of the small intestine. The tube delivers food
and medicine until the person is healthy enough to eat by mouth.

You'll need to know how to care for the J-tube and the skin where the tube
enters the body.

Follow any specific instructions your nurse gives you. Use the information
below as a reminder of what to do.

## What to Expect at Home

It is important to take good care of the skin around the tube to avoid getting
an infection or skin irritation.

You will also learn how to change the dressing around the tube every day.

Make sure you keep the tube protected by taping it to the skin.

Your nurse may replace the tube every now and then.

## Cleaning the Skin Around the J-tube

To clean the skin, you will need to change the bandages once a day or more if
the area becomes wet or dirty.

The skin area should always be kept clean and dry. You will need:

      * Warm soapy water and a washcloth
      * Dry, clean towel
      * Plastic bag
      * Ointment or hydrogen peroxide (if your doctor recommends)
      * Q-tips 

Follow these guidelines every day for good health and skin care:

      * Wash your hands well for a few minutes with soap and water.
      * Remove any dressings or bandages on the skin. Place them in the plastic bag and throw the bag away.
      * Check the skin for redness, odor, pain, puss, or swelling. Make sure the stitches are still in place.
      * Use the clean towel or Q-tip to clean the skin around the J-tube 1 to 3 times a day with mild soap and water. Try to remove any drainage or crusting on the skin and tube. Be gentle. Dry the skin well with a clean towel.
      * If there is drainage, place a small piece of gauze under the disc around the tube.
      * DO NOT rotate the tube. This may cause it to become blocked. 

## Replacing the Dressings Around the Tube

You will need:

      * Gauze pads, dressings, or bandages
      * Tape 

Your nurse will show you how to place the new bandages or gauze around the
tube and tape it securely to the abdomen.

Usually, split gauze strips are slipped over the tube and taped down on all
four sides. Tape the tube down as well.

DO NOT use creams, powders, or sprays near the site unless the nurse says it
is OK.

## Flushing the J-tube

To flush the J-tube, follow the instructions your nurse gave you. You will use
the syringe to slowly push warm water into the side opening of the J-port.

You may rinse, dry, and reuse the syringe later.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider right away if any of the following occur:

      * The tube is pulled out
      * There is redness, swelling, smell, pus (unusual color) at the tube site
      * There is bleeding around the tube
      * The stitches are coming out
      * There is leaking around the tube
      * Skin or scarring is growing around the tube
      * Vomiting
      * Stomach is bloated 

## Alternative Names

Feeding - jejunostomy tube; G-J tube; J-tube; Jejunum tube

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Nutritional management
and enteral intubation. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L,
Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed.
New York, NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 16.

Ziegler TR. Malnutrition, nutritional assessment, and nutritional support in
adult hospitalized patients. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 217.

## Read More

      * Cerebral palsy
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Esophageal cancer
      * Failure to thrive
      * HIV/AIDS

## Patient Instructions

      * Crohn disease - discharge
      * Esophagectomy - discharge 
      * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
      * Pancreatitis - discharge
      * Stroke - discharge 
      * Swallowing problems 
      * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 10/29/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

