Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003088.htm    
                                Description: Fatigue is a feeling of weariness, tiredness, or lack of energy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fatigue

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003088.htm

# Fatigue

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fatigue is a feeling of weariness, tiredness, or lack of energy.

## Considerations

Fatigue is different from drowsiness. Drowsiness is feeling the need to sleep.
Fatigue is a lack of energy and motivation. Drowsiness and apathy (a feeling
of not caring about what happens) can be symptoms that go along with fatigue.

Fatigue can be a normal and important response to physical activity, emotional
stress, boredom, or lack of sleep. Fatigue is a common symptom, and it is
usually not due to a serious disease. But it can be a sign of a more serious
mental or physical condition. When fatigue is not relieved by enough sleep,
good nutrition, or a low-stress environment, it should be evaluated by your
health care provider.

## Causes

There are many possible causes of fatigue, including:

      * Anemia (including iron deficiency anemia)
      * Depression or grief
      * Iron deficiency (without anemia)
      * Medicines, such as sedatives or antidepressants
      * Persistent pain
      * Sleep disorders such as insomnia, obstructive sleep apnea, or narcolepsy
      * Thyroid gland that is underactive or overactive
      * Use of alcohol or drugs, such as cocaine or narcotics, especially with regular use 

Fatigue can also occur with the following illnesses:

      * Addison diseaseÂ (a disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands don't produce enough hormones)
      * Anorexia or other eating disorders
      * Arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
      * Autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Cancer
      * Heart failure
      * Diabetes
      * Fibromyalgia
      * Infection, especially one that takes a long time to recover from or treat, such as bacterial endocarditis (infection of the heart muscle or valves), parasitic infections, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and mononucleosis
      * Kidney disease
      * Liver disease
      * Malnutrition

Certain medicines may also cause drowsiness or fatigue, including
antihistamines for allergies, blood pressure medicines, sleeping pills,
steroids, and diuretics (water pills).

Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a condition in which symptoms of fatigue
persist for at least 6 months and do not resolve with rest. The fatigue may be
worsened with physical activity or mental stress. It is diagnosed based on the
presence of a specific group of symptoms and after all other possible causes
of fatigue are ruled out.

## Home Care

Here are some tips for reducing fatigue:

      * Get enough sleep each night.
      * Make sure your diet is healthy and well-balanced, and drink plenty of water throughout the day.
      * Exercise regularly.
      * Learn better ways to relax. Try yoga or meditation.
      * Maintain a reasonable work and personal schedule.
      * Change or reduce your stressors, if possible. For example, take a vacation or resolve relationship problems.
      * Take a multivitamin. Talk to your provider about what is best for you.
      * Avoid alcohol, nicotine, and drug use.

If you have long-term (chronic) pain or depression, treating it often helps
the fatigue. Be aware that some antidepressant drugs may cause or worsen
fatigue. If your drug is one of these, your provider may have to adjust the
dosage or switch you to another drug. DO NOT stop or change any medicines
without first talking to your provider.

Stimulants (including caffeine) are not effective treatments for fatigue. They
can make the problem worse when they are stopped. Sedatives also tend to
worsen fatigue.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have any of the following:

      * Confusion or dizziness
      * Blurred vision
      * Little or no urine, or recent swelling and weight gain
      * Thoughts of harming yourself or of committing suicide 

Call your provider for an appointment if you have any of the following:

      * Unexplained weakness or fatigue, especially if you also have a fever or unintentional weight loss
      * Constipation, dry skin, weight gain, or you cannot tolerate cold
      * Wake up and fall back to sleep many times during the night
      * Headaches all the time
      * Are taking medicines, prescribed or non-prescribed, or using drugs that may cause fatigue or drowsiness
      * Feel sad or depressed
      * Insomnia 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a complete physical examination, paying special
attention to your heart, lymph nodes, thyroid, abdomen, and nervous system.
You will be asked about your medical history, fatigue symptoms, and your
lifestyle, habits, and feelings.

Tests that may be ordered include the following:

      * Blood tests to check for anemia, diabetes, inflammatory diseases, and possible infection
      * Kidney function tests
      * Liver function tests
      * Thyroid function tests
      * Urinalysis

Treatment depends on the cause of your fatigue symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Tiredness; Weariness; Exhaustion; Lethargy

## References

Bennett RM. Fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and myofascial pain. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 274.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Fatigue. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds. _Differential
Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
14.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fatigue](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fatigue_thumb.jpg)Fatigue _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

