

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

# Prepare Your Health

Minus

Related Pages

![Have you planned
ahead?](/cpr/prepareyourhealth/00-images/prepyourhealth_banner.jpg)

alert icon

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

CDC is responding to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel (or
new) coronavirus. The disease caused by this novel coronavirus is called
"coronavirus disease 2019" (or COVID-19).

COVID-19 is a new disease. The virus causing COVID-19 is not the same as the
coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness,
like the common cold. CDC is still learning about how COVID-19 spreads, the
severity of illness it causes. There are steps people now can take to prepare
for and prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses like COVID-19. Everyone
has a role to play in getting ready and staying healthy.

Stay informed in this rapidly evolving situation. CDC will provide updated
information and guidance as it becomes available. Follow verified sources of
reliable information, including @CDCgov, @CDCemergency, and the social media
handles of your state and local health departments.

It's been said that your health is your most important asset. Why wouldn't you
do all you can to prepare and protect it from the 'side effects' of a natural
disaster, disease outbreak, or other emergency?

Despite the many reasons and motivations to prepare for an emergency, many
Americans are un- or underprepared to protect the health of their families
from the direct and indirect effects of an emergency on the public health and
healthcare systems.

Prepare Your Health encourages personal health preparedness for public health
emergencies with practical advice on how to get ready and build resilience.

Prepare Your Health is organized into three categories: **Personal Health
Preparedness** , **Plan Ahead** , and **Create Community**. Use the
information on these webpages to help you prepare your family for disasters
and public health emergencies.

Share what you've learned with family, friends, neighbors, coworkers, and
social media followers to help build more resilient communities.

![Personal Health
Preparedness](/cpr/prepareyourhealth/00-images/PracticalSkills.jpg)

PERSONAL HEALTH PREPAREDNESS

Be prepared to protect your health until help arrives.

![PLAN AHEAD](/cpr/prepareyourhealth/00-images/PlanAheadThumb.jpg)

PLAN AHEAD

Have a strategy for staying informed, healthy, and in contact.

![CREATE COMMUNITY](/cpr/prepareyourhealth/00-images/CreateCommunityThumb.jpg)

CREATE COMMUNITY

Team up with neighbors to help build community health resilience.

Personal Health Resilience

A person's "resilience" is their ability to bounce back from a difficult or
life-changing event--like the diagnosis of chronic disease or the impacts of a
natural disaster. People--and communities they are a part of--are better able
to withstand, adapt to, and recover from adversity when they make healthy
choices, like the decision to prepare for emergencies.

When enough healthy, socially connected, and prepared people come together,
they form a community that is often better able to withstand, manage, and
recover from disasters.

Page last reviewed: March 17, 2020, 08:45 PM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

            * What We Doplus icon
              * Ready for Emergencies
              * Public Health Preparedness and Response
              * Emergency Operations
              * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
              * Laboratory Response
              * Safeguarding Research
              * Poliovirus Containment 
              * Global Preparedness
              * Vulnerable Populations
              * Children
            * Why it Matters
            * Who We Areplus icon
              * Our Leadership
              * Our Organization
              * Our Divisions
              * Our Funding
            * Emergency Preparedness Funding
            * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
              * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                * Personal Needs
                * Prescriptions
                * Paperwork
                * Power Sources
                * Practical Skills
              * Plan Aheadplus icon
                * Stay Healthy
                * Stay Informed
                * Stay In Contact
              * Create Communityplus icon
                * Care For Each Other
                * Get Involved
            * Emergency Operationsplus icon
              * CDCâs EOC
              * How It Works
              * CDC Support
              * Emergency Management Fellowship
              * Stories and Blogs
              * Situation Awareness
            * State and Local Readiness
            * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
            * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
              * About Us
              * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                * What is a Select Agent?
                * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                * Enforcement of Regulations
              * Import Permit Program
              * Stories and Blogs
              * Reports and Fact Sheets
              * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                * Progress Towards Change
            * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
              * Our Research
              * Current Research
              * Prior Research 
              * Research Funding Opportunity
            * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
              * Member Roster
              * Member Profiles
              * Meeting Schedule
              * Meeting Minutes
              * Reports
            * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
              * About
              * Successful Partnerships
              * Stay Connectedplus icon
                * Become a Partner
              * Partner Tools and Resources
              * NGA Webinars
            * Communication Resourcesplus icon
              * Blog
              * Infographics
              * Social Media Graphics
              * Videos
            * Campaignsplus icon
              * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                * Preparedness Month 2019
                * Preparedness Month 2018
                * Preparedness Month 2017
                * Preparedness Month 2016
              * Safe and Well Selfie
              * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                * Books
                * Checklist
                * Posters
              * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                * Zombie Graphic Novel
              * Prep Your Health Chat
            * Resources & Publications
            * Trainingplus icon
              * Whole Community Program
              * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
              * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

            * About CDC
            * Jobs
            * Funding
            * Policies
            * File Viewers & Players

            * Privacy
            * FOIA
            * No Fear Act
            * OIG
            * Nondiscrimination
            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * Youtube
            * Instagram
  

            * Syndicate
            * CDC TV
            * RSS
            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

