Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000838.htm    
                                Description: Saturated fat is a type of dietary fat. It is one of the unhealthy fats, along with trans fat. These fats are most often solid at room temperature. Foods like butter, palm and coconut oils, cheese, and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facts about saturated fats

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000838.htm

# Facts about saturated fats

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Saturated fat is a type of dietary fat. It is one of the unhealthy fats, along
with trans fat. These fats are most often solid at room temperature. Foods
like butter, palm and coconut oils, cheese, and red meat have high amounts of
saturated fat.

Too much saturated fat in your diet can lead to heart disease and other health
problems.

## How Saturated Fats Affect Your Health

Saturated fats are bad for your health in several ways:

 **Heart disease risk.** Your body needs healthy fats for energy and other
functions. But too much saturated fat can cause cholesterol to build up in
your arteries (blood vessels). Saturated fats raise your LDL (bad)
cholesterol. High LDL cholesterol increases your risk for heart disease and
stroke.

**Weight gain.** Many high-fat foods such as pizza, baked goods, and fried
foods have a lot of saturated fat. Eating too much fat can add extra calories
to your diet and cause you to gain weight. All fats contain 9 calories per
gram of fat. This is more than twice the amount found in carbohydrates and
protein.

Cutting out high-fat foods can help keep your weight in check and keep your
heart healthy. Staying at a healthy weight can reduce your risk of developing
diabetes, heart disease, and other health problems.

## How Much you can Eat

Most foods have a combination of different fats. You are better off choosing
foods higher in healthier fats, such as monounsaturated and polyunsaturated
fats. These fats tend to be liquid at room temperature.

How much should you get every day? Here are recommendations from the 2015
Dietary Guidelines for Americans:

      * You should get no more than 25% to 30% of your daily calories from fats.
      * You should limit saturated fat to less than 10% of your daily calories.
      * To further reduce your heart disease risk, limit saturated fats to less than 7% of your total daily calories.
      * For a 2,000 calorie diet, that is 140 to 200 calories or 16 to 22 grams (g) of saturated fats a day. As an example, just 1 slice of cooked bacon contains nearly 9 g of saturated fat.
      * If you have heart disease or high cholesterol, your health care provider may ask you to limit saturated fat even more. 

## Reading Nutrition Labels

All packaged foods have a nutrition label that includes fat content. Reading
food labels can help you keep track of how much saturated fat you eat.

Check the total fat in 1 serving. Also, check the amount of saturated fat in a
serving. Then add up how many servings you eat.

As a guide, when comparing or reading labels:

      * 5% of daily value from fats and cholesterol is low
      * 20% of daily value from fats is high

Choose foods with low amounts of saturated fat and trans fat.

Many fast food restaurants also provide nutrition information on their menus.
If you DO NOT see it posted, ask your server. You also may be able to find it
on the restaurant's website.

## Making Healthy Food Choices

Saturated fats are found in all animal foods, and some plant sources.

The following foods may be high in saturated fats. Many of them are also low
in nutrients and have extra calories from sugar:

      * Baked goods (cake, doughnuts, Danish)
      * Fried foods (fried chicken, fried seafood, French fries)
      * Fatty or processed meats (bacon, sausage, chicken with skin, cheeseburger, steak)
      * Whole-fat dairy products (butter, ice cream, pudding, cheese, whole milk)
      * Solid fats such as coconut oil, palm, and palm kernel oils (found in packaged foods) 

Here are some examples of popular food items with the saturated fat content in
a typical serving:

      * 12 ounces (oz), or 340 g, steak -- 20 g
      * Cheeseburger -- 10 g
      * Vanilla shake -- 8 g
      * 1 tbsp (15 mL) butter -- 7 g 

It is fine to treat yourself to these types of foods once in a while. But, it
is best to limit how often you eat them and limit portion sizes when you do.

You can cut how much saturated fat you eat by substituting healthier foods for
less healthy options. Replace foods high in saturated fats with foods that
have polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats. Here is how to get started:

      * Replace red meats with skinless chicken or fish a few days a week.
      * Use canola or olive oil instead of butter and other solid fats.
      * Replace whole-fat diary with low-fat or nonfat milk, yogurt, and cheese.
      * Eat more fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and other foods with low or no saturated fat. 

## Alternative Names

Cholesterol - saturated fat; Atherosclerosis - saturated fat; Hardening of the
arteries - saturated fat; Hyperlipidemia - saturated fat; Hypercholesterolemia
- saturated fat; Coronary artery disease - saturated fat; Heart disease -
saturated fat; Peripheral artery disease - saturated fat; PAD - saturated fat;
Stroke - saturated fat; CAD - saturated fat; Heart healthy diet - saturated
fat

## References

Chowdhury R, Warnakula S, Kunutsor S, et al. Association of dietary,
circulating, and supplement fatty acids with coronary risk: a systematic
review and meta-analysis. _Ann Intern Med_. 2014;160(6):398-406. PMID:
24723079 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24723079.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology American/Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

Sacks FM, McManus K. Cardiovascular disease and lifestyle modification. In:
Antman EM, Sabatine MS, eds. _Cardiovascular Therapeutics: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 26.

United States Department of Agriculture website. USDA branded food products
database. ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb/. Updated April 2018. Accessed October 18,
2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services; US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 14, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 10/18/2018.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fats
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

