Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000786.htm    
                                Description: Trans fat is a type of dietary fat. Of all the fats, trans fat is the worst for your health. Too much trans fat in your diet increases your risk for heart disease and other health problems.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facts about trans fats

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000786.htm

# Facts about trans fats

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trans fat is a type of dietary fat. Of all the fats, trans fat is the worst
for your health. Too much trans fat in your diet increases your risk for heart
disease and other health problems.

Trans fats are made when food makers turn liquid oils into solid fats, like
shortening or margarine. Trans fats can be found in many fried, "fast",
packaged, or processed foods, including:

      * Anything fried and battered
      * Shortening and stick margarine
      * Cakes, cake mixes, pies, pie crust 

Animal foods, such as red meats and dairy, have small amounts of trans fats.
But most trans fats come from processed foods.

![Trans-fatty acids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19514.jpg)

## How Trans Fats Affect Your Health

Your body does not need or benefit from trans fats. Eating these fats increase
your risk for health problems.

Cardiovascular disease risk:

      * Trans fats raise your LDL (bad) cholesterol.
      * They also lower your HDL (good) cholesterol.
      * High LDL along with low HDL levels can cause cholesterol to build up in your arteries (blood vessels). This increases your risk for heart disease and stroke.

Weight gain and diabetes risk:

      * Many high-fat foods such as baked goods and fried foods have a lot of trans fat.
      * Eating too much trans fat can cause you to gain weight. It may also increase your risk for type 2 diabetes. Staying at a healthy weight can reduce your risk for diabetes, heart disease, and other health problems.

## How Much you can eat

Your body does not need trans fat. So you should eat as little as possible.

Here are recommendations from the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans and
the American Heart Association:

      * You should get no more than 25% to 30% of your daily calories from fats.
      * You should limit saturated fat to less than 10% of your daily calories.
      * You should limit trans fat to less than 1% of your daily calories. For someone with a 2,000 calorie a day diet, this is about 20 calories or 2 grams per day. 

## Reading Nutrition Labels

All packaged foods have a nutrition label that includes fat content. Food
makers are required to label trans fats on nutrition and some supplement
labels. Reading food labels can help you keep track of how much trans fat you
eat.

      * Check the total fat in 1 serving.
      * Look closely at the amount of trans fat in a serving.
      * Look for the words "partially hydrogenated" in the ingredient list. It means oils have been turned to solids and trans fats. Manufacturers can show 0 grams of trans fat if there is less than 5 grams per serving, often a small serving size shows 0 grams of trans fat, but it still might be in there. If there are multiple servings in a package, then the whole package may contain several grams of trans fat.
      * When tracking trans fat, make sure you count the number of servings you eat in 1 sitting.
      * Many fast food restaurants use solid oils with trans fat for frying. Often they provide nutrition information on their menus. If you DO NOT see it posted, ask your server. You also may be able to find it on the restaurant's website. 

Trans fats are under review for their health effects. Experts are working to
limit the amount of trans fats used in packaged foods and restaurants.

## Making Healthy Food Choices

Trans fats are found in many processed and packaged foods. Note that these
foods are often low in nutrients and have extra calories from sugar:

      * Cookies, pies, cakes, biscuits, sweet rolls, and donuts
      * Breads and crackers
      * Frozen foods, such as frozen dinners, pizza, ice cream, frozen yogurt, milk shakes, and pudding
      * Snack foods
      * Fast food
      * Solid fats, such as shortening and margarine
      * Nondairy creamer 

Not all packaged foods have trans fats. It depends on the ingredients that
were used. That is why it is important to read labels.

While it is fine to treat yourself to sweets and other high-fat foods once in
a while, it is best to avoid food with trans fats completely.

You can cut how much trans fat you eat by substituting healthier foods for
less healthy options. Replace foods high in trans and saturated fats with
foods that have polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats. Here is how to get
started:

      * Use safflower or olive oil instead of butter and other solid fats.
      * Switch from solid margarine to soft margarine.
      * Ask what type of fats foods are cooked in when you eat out at restaurants.
      * Avoid fried, packaged, and processed foods.
      * Replace meats with skinless chicken or fish a few days a week.
      * Replace whole-fat diary with low-fat or nonfat milk, yogurt, and cheese. 

## Alternative Names

Trans fatty acids; Partially hydrogenated oils (PHOs); Cholesterol - trans
fats; Hyperlipidemia - trans fats; Atherosclerosis - trans fat; Hardening of
the arteries - trans fat; Hypercholesterolemia - trans fat; Coronary artery
disease - trans fat; Heart disease - trans fat; Peripheral artery disease -
trans fat; PAD - trans fat; Stroke - trans fat; CAD - trans fat; Heart healthy
diet - trans fat

## Images

      * ![Trans-fatty acids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19514t.jpg)Trans fatty acids

## References

Kuehn BM. FDA moves to further reduce trans fat in food. _JAMA_.
2013;310(22):2386. PMID: 24327023 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24327023.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

Sacks FM, McManus K. Cardiovascular disease and lifestyle modification. In:
Antman EM, Sabatine MS, eds. _Cardiovascular Therapeutics: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 26.

US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration.
Trans fat. www.fda.gov/food/food-additives-petitions/trans-fat. Updated May
18, 2018. Accessed April 30, 2019.

US Department of Health and Human Services; US Department of Agriculture. 2015
- 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 13, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update: 04-30-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fats
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

