Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000095.htm    
                                Description: Some types of fat are healthier for your heart than others. Butter and other animal fats and solid margarine are not the best choices. Choose liquid vegetable oils or margarines made from these oils when    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Butter, margarine, and cooking oils

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000095.htm

# Butter, margarine, and cooking oils

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some types of fat are healthier for your heart than others. Butter and other
animal fats and solid margarine are not the best choices. Choose liquid
vegetable oils or margarines made from these oils when possible.

## What to Use When Cooking

When you cook, solid margarine or butter is not the best choice. Butter is
high in saturated fat, which can raise your cholesterol. It can also increase
your chance of heart disease. Most margarines have some saturated fat plus
trans-fatty acids, which can also be bad for you. Both of these fats have
health risks.

Some guidelines for healthier cooking:

      * Use olive or canola oil instead of butter or margarine.
      * Choose soft margarine (tub or liquid) over harder stick forms.
      * Choose margarines with liquid vegetable oil, such as olive oil, as the first ingredient.
      * Even better, choose "light" margarines that list water as the first ingredient. These are even lower in saturated fat.
      * If you have high cholesterol, talk with your health care provider about using margarines made from plant sterols or stanols. These are made from soybean and pine tree oils, and they can help lower your LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol). But these margarines are not yet recommended for children, pregnant women, and people who do not have high cholesterol. 

## What Not to Use When Cooking

You should NOT use:

      * Margarine, shortening, and cooking oils that have more than 2 grams of saturated fat per tablespoon (read the nutrition information labels).
      * Hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated fats (read the ingredients labels). These are high in saturated fats and trans-fatty acids.
      * Shortening or other fats made from animal sources, such as lard. 

## Alternative Names

Cholesterol - butter; Hyperlipidemia - butter; CAD - butter; Coronary artery
disease - butter; Heart disease - butter; Prevention - butter; Cardiovascular
disease - butter; Peripheral artery disease - butter; Stroke - butter;
Atherosclerosis - butter

## Images

      * ![Saturated fat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22944t.jpg)Saturated fat

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the
management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and The Obesity Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt
B):2985-3023. PMID: 24239920 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239920.

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Vitamin, mineral, and
multivitamin supplements for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease
and cancer: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2014;160(8):558-564. PMID: 24566474
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24566474.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

## Read More

      * Angina
      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
      * Cardiac ablation procedures 
      * Carotid artery surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart failure - overview
      * Heart pacemaker
      * High blood cholesterol levels
      * High blood pressure - adults
      * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
      * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart failure - discharge
      * How to read food labels
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fats
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

