Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000785.htm    
                                Description: Monounsaturated fat is a type of dietary fat. It is one of the healthy fats, along with polyunsaturated fat. Monounsaturated fats are liquid at room temperature, but start to harden when chilled.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facts about monounsaturated fats

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000785.htm

# Facts about monounsaturated fats

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Monounsaturated fat is a type of dietary fat. It is one of the healthy fats,
along with polyunsaturated fat. Monounsaturated fats are liquid at room
temperature, but start to harden when chilled.

Saturated fats and trans fats are solid at room temperature. These unhealthy
fats can increase your risk for heart disease and other health problems.

Monounsaturated fats are found in plant foods, such as nuts, avocados, and
vegetable oils. Eating moderate amounts of monounsaturated (and
polyunsaturated) fats in place of saturated and trans fats can benefit your
health.

## How Monounsaturated Fats Affect Your Health

Monounsaturated fats are good for your health in several ways:

      * They can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol level. Cholesterol is a soft, waxy substance that can cause clogged, or blocked, arteries (blood vessels). Keeping your LDL level low reduces your risk for heart disease and stroke.
      * Monounsaturated fats help develop and maintain your cells.

## How Much you can eat

Your body needs some fats for energy and other functions. Monounsaturated fats
are a healthy choice.

How much should you get every day? Here are recommendations from the 2015
Dietary Guidelines for Americans:

      * The 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends getting no more than 10% of your total daily calories from saturated fat (found in red meat, butter, cheese, and whole-fat dairy products) and trans fats (found in processed foods). For a 2,000 calorie diet, that is a total of 140 to 200 calories or 16 to 22 grams of saturated fats and unsaturated fats a day.
      * You should also get no more than 25% to 30% of your daily calories from fats including monounsaturated or polyunsaturated types.
      * Keep total fat consumption to no more than 25% to 30% of your daily calories. This includes monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats.

Eating healthier fats is good for your health. But eating too much fat can
lead to weight gain. All fats contain 9 calories per gram of fat. This is more
than twice the amount found in carbohydrates and protein.

It is not enough to add foods high in unsaturated fats to a diet filled with
unhealthy foods and fats. Instead, replace saturated or trans fats with
healthier fats.

## Reading Nutrition Labels

All packaged foods have a nutrition label that includes fat content. Reading
food labels can help you keep track of how much fat you eat.

      * Check the total fat in one serving. Be sure to add up the number of servings you will eat in one sitting.
      * Look closely at the amount of saturated fat and trans fat in a serving. The rest is unsaturated fat. Some labels will list the monounsaturated fat content, some will not.
      * Make sure most of your daily fats are from monounsaturated and polyunsaturated sources.
      * Many fast food restaurants also provide nutrition information on their menus. If you DO NOT see it posted, ask your server. You also may be able to find it on the restaurant's website. 

## Making Healthy Food Choices

Most foods have a combination of all types of fats. Some have higher amounts
of healthy fats than others. Foods and oils with higher amounts of
monounsaturated fats include:

      * Nuts
      * Avocado
      * Canola oil
      * Olive oil
      * Safflower oil (high oleic)
      * Sunflower oil
      * Peanut oil and butter
      * Sesame oil 

To get the health benefits, you need to replace unhealthy fats with healthy
fats. Here are some ideas:

      * Eat nuts instead of cookies for a snack. Just be sure to keep your portion small, as nuts are high in calories.
      * Add avocado to salads and sandwiches.
      * Replace butter and solid fats with olive or canola oil. 

## Alternative Names

Monounsaturated fatty acid; MUFA; Oleic acid; Cholesterol - monounsaturated
fat; Atherosclerosis - monounsaturated fat; Hardening of the arteries -
monounsaturated fat; Hyperlipidemia - monounsaturated fat;
Hypercholesterolemia - monounsaturated fat; Coronary artery disease -
monounsaturated fat; Heart disease - monounsaturated fat; Peripheral artery
disease - monounsaturated fat; PAD - monounsaturated fat; Stroke -
monounsaturated fat; CAD - monounsaturated fat; Heart healthy diet -
monounsaturated fat

## References

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

Sacks FM, McManus K. Cardiovascular disease and lifestyle modification. In:
Antman EM, Sabatine MS, eds. _Cardiovascular Therapeutics: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 26.

US Department of Health and Human Services; US Department of Agriculture. 2015
- 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 13, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fats
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

