Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000104.htm    
                                Description: Fats are important part of your diet but some types are healthier than others. Choosing healthy fats from vegetable sources more often than less healthy types from animal products can help lower your risk    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dietary fats explained

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000104.htm

# Dietary fats explained

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fats are important part of your diet but some types are healthier than others.
Choosing healthy fats from vegetable sources more often than less healthy
types from animal products can help lower your risk for heart attack, stroke,
and other major health problems.

## What are Fats?

Fats are a type of nutrient that you get from your diet. It is essential to
eat some fats, though it is also harmful to eat too many.

The fats you eat give your body energy that it needs to work properly. During
exercise, your body uses calories from carbohydrates you have eaten. But after
20 minutes, exercise then depends on calories from fat to keep you going.

You also need fat to keep your skin and hair healthy. Fat also helps you
absorb vitamins A, D, E, and K, the so-called fat-soluble vitamins. Fat also
fills your fat cells and insulates your body to help keep you warm.

The fats your body gets from your food give your body essential fatty acids
called linoleic and linolenic acid. They are called "essential" because your
body cannot make them itself, or work without them. Your body needs them for
brain development, controlling inflammation, and blood clotting.

Fat has 9 calories per gram, more than 2 times the number of calories in
carbohydrates and protein, which each have 4 calories per gram.

All fats are made up of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Fats are called
saturated or unsaturated depending on how much of each type of fatty acid they
contain.

## Types of fat

Saturated fats raise your LDL (bad) cholesterol level. High LDL cholesterol
puts you at risk for heart attack, stroke, and other major health problems.
You should avoid or limit foods that are high in saturated fats.

      * Keep saturated fats to less than 6% of your total daily calories.
      * Foods with a lot of saturated fats are animal products, such as butter, cheese, whole milk, ice cream, cream, and fatty meats.
      * Some vegetable oils, such as coconut, palm, and palm kernel oil, also contain saturated fats. These fats are solid at room temperature.
      * A diet high in saturated fat increases cholesterol buildup in your arteries (blood vessels). Cholesterol is a soft, waxy substance that can cause clogged, or blocked, arteries. 

Eating unsaturated fats instead of saturated fats can help lower your LDL
cholesterol. Most vegetable oils that are liquid at room temperature have
unsaturated fats. There are two kinds of unsaturated fats:

      * Mono-unsaturated fats, which include olive and canola oil
      * Polyunsaturated fats, which include safflower, sunflower, corn, and soy oil 

Trans fatty acids are unhealthy fats that form when vegetable oil hardens in a
process called hydrogenation. Hydrogenated fats, or "trans fats," are often
used to keep some foods fresh for a long time.

Trans fats are also used for cooking in some restaurants. They can raise LDL
cholesterol levels in your blood. They can also lower your HDL (good)
cholesterol levels.

Trans fats are under review for their health effects. Experts are working to
limit the amount of trans fats used in packaged foods and restaurants.

You should avoid foods made with hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated oils
(such as hard butter and margarine). They contain high levels of trans-fatty
acids.

It is important to read nutrition labels on foods. This will help you know
what kinds of fats, and how much, your food contains.

![Food Label Guide for
Candy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19342.jpg)

Talk with your health care provider about how to cut down on the amount of fat
you eat. Your provider can refer you to a dietitian who can help you learn
more about foods and help you plan a healthy diet. Make sure you have your
cholesterol levels checked according to a schedule your provider gives you.

## Alternative Names

Cholesterol - dietary fats; Hyperlipidemia - dietary fats; CAD - dietary fats;
Coronary artery disease - dietary fats; Heart disease - dietary fats;
Prevention - dietary fats; Cardiovascular disease - dietary fats; Peripheral
artery disease - dietary fats; Stroke - dietary fats; Atherosclerosis -
dietary fats

## Images

      * ![Food Label Guide for Candy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19342t.jpg)Food label guide for candy

## References

Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed August 23, 2018.

Despres J-P, Larose E, Poirier P. Obesity and casrdiometabolic disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 50.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

## Read More

      * Angina
      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
      * Cardiac ablation procedures 
      * Carotid artery surgery
      * Coronary heart disease
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart failure - overview
      * Heart pacemaker
      * High blood cholesterol levels
      * High blood pressure - adults
      * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
      * Peripheral artery disease - legs

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart failure - discharge
      * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
      * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
      * How to read food labels
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Managing your blood sugar
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fats
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet
      * VLDL Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

