Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000747.htm    
                                Description: Polyunsaturated fat is a type of dietary fat. It is one of the healthy fats, along with monounsaturated fat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facts about polyunsaturated fats

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000747.htm

# Facts about polyunsaturated fats

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polyunsaturated fat is a type of dietary fat. It is one of the healthy fats,
along with monounsaturated fat.

Polyunsaturated fat is found in plant and animal foods, such as salmon,
vegetable oils, and some nuts and seeds. Eating moderate amounts of
polyunsaturated (and monounsaturated) fat in place of saturated and trans fats
can benefit your health.

Polyunsaturated fat is different than saturated fat and trans fat. These
unhealthy fats can increase your risk for heart disease and other health
problems.

## How Polyunsaturated Fats Affect Your Health

Polyunsaturated fats can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Cholesterol is
a soft, waxy substance that can cause clogged or blocked arteries (blood
vessels). Having low LDL cholesterol reduces your risk for heart disease.

Polyunsaturated fats include omega-3 and omega-6 fats. These are essential
fatty acids that the body needs for brain function and cell growth. Our bodies
DO NOT make essential fatty acids, so you can only get them from food.

 **Omega-3 fatty acids** are good for your heart in several ways. They help:

      * Reduce triglycerides, a type of fat in your blood
      * Reduce the risk of developing an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)
      * Slow the buildup of plaque in your arteries
      * Slightly lower your blood pressure 

**Omega-6 fatty acids** may help:

      * Control your blood sugar
      * Reduce your risk for diabetes
      * Lower your blood pressure 

## How Much Should you eat?

Your body needs some fat for energy and other functions. Polyunsaturated fats
are a healthy choice. The 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends
getting no more than 10% of your total daily calories from saturated fat
(found in red meat, butter, cheese, and whole-fat dairy products) and trans
fats (found in processed foods). Keep total fat consumption to no more than
25% to 30% of your daily calories. This includes monounsaturated and
polyunsaturated fats.

Eating healthier fats can lead to certain health benefits. But eating too much
fat can lead to weight gain. All fats contain 9 calories per gram. This is
more than twice the amount of calories found in carbohydrates and protein.

It is not enough to add foods high in unsaturated fats to a diet filled with
unhealthy foods and fats. Instead, replace saturated or trans fats with
healthier fats. Overall, eliminating saturated fats is twice as effective in
lowering blood cholesterol levels as increasing polyunsaturated fats.

## Reading Nutrition Labels

All packaged foods have nutrition labels on them that include fat content.
Reading food labels can help you keep track of how much fat you eat a day.

      * Check the total fat in one serving. Be sure to add up the number of servings you eat in one sitting.
      * Look at the amount of saturated fat and trans fat in a serving -- the rest is healthy, unsaturated fat. Some labels will note the monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat contents. Some will not.
      * Make sure most of your daily fats are from monounsaturated and polyunsaturated sources.
      * Many fast food restaurants also provide nutrition information on their menus. If you DO NOT see it posted, ask your server. You also may be able to find it on the restaurant's website. 

## Making Healthy Food Choices

Most foods have a combination of all types of fats. Some have higher amounts
of healthy fats than others. Foods and oils with higher amounts of
polyunsaturated fats include:

      * Walnuts
      * Sunflower seeds
      * Flax seeds or flax oil
      * Fish, such as salmon, mackerel, herring, albacore tuna, and trout
      * Corn oil
      * Soybean oil
      * Safflower oil 

To get the health benefits, you need to replace unhealthy fats with healthy
fats.

      * Eat walnuts instead of cookies for a snack. But be sure to keep your portion small, as nuts are high in calories.
      * Replace some meats with fish. Try eating at least 2 meals with fish per week.
      * Sprinkle ground flax seed on your meal.
      * Add walnuts or sunflower seeds to salads.
      * Cook with corn or safflower oil instead of butter and solid fats. 

## Alternative Names

Polyunsaturated fatty acid; PUFA; Cholesterol - polyunsaturated fat;
Atherosclerosis - polyunsaturated fat; Hardening of the arteries -
polyunsaturated fat; Hyperlipidemia - polyunsaturated fat;
Hypercholesterolemia - polyunsaturated fat; Coronary artery disease -
polyunsaturated fat; Heart disease - polyunsaturated fat; Peripheral artery
disease - polyunsaturated fat; PAD - polyunsaturated fat; Stroke -
polyunsaturated fat; CAD - polyunsaturated fat; Heart healthy diet -
polyunsaturated fat

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Fleg JL, Forman DE, Berra K, et al. Secondary prevention of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease in older adults: a scientific statement from the
American Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2013;128(22):2422-2446. PMID:
24166575 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24166575.

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the
management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and The Obesity society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt
B):2985-3023. PMID: 24239920 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239920.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; U.S. Department of Agriculture.
2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fats
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

