Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000565.htm    
                                Description: Trigger finger occurs when a finger or thumb gets stuck in a bent position, as if you were squeezing a trigger. Once it gets unstuck, the finger pops straight out, like a trigger being released.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trigger finger

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000565.htm

# Trigger finger

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trigger finger occurs when a finger or thumb gets stuck in a bent position, as
if you were squeezing a trigger. Once it gets unstuck, the finger pops
straight out, like a trigger being released.

In severe cases, the finger cannot be straightened. Surgery is needed to
correct it.

## What is a Trigger Finger?

Tendons connect muscles to bones. When you tighten a muscle, it pulls on the
tendon, and this causes the bone to move.

The tendons that move your finger slide through a tendon sheath (tunnel) as
you bend your finger.

      * If the tunnel swells and becomes smaller, or the tendon has a bump on it, the tendon cannot slide smoothly through the tunnel.
      * When it cannot slide smoothly, the tendon may become stuck when you try to straighten your finger.

## About Trigger Finger

If you have a trigger finger:

      * Your finger is stiff or it locks in a bent position.
      * You have painful snapping or popping when you bend and straighten your finger.
      * Your symptoms are worse in the morning.
      * You have a tender bump on the palm side of your hand at the base of your finger. 

Trigger finger can occur in both children and adults. It is more common in
people who:

      * Are over 45 years old
      * Are female
      * Have diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, or gout
      * Do work or activities that require repeated gripping of their hands 

Trigger finger is diagnosed by medical history and a physical exam. Trigger
finger usually does not require x-rays or lab tests.Â You can have more than
one trigger finger and it can develop in both hands.

## Treating Trigger Finger Without Surgery

In mild cases, the goal is to decrease swelling in the tunnel.

Self-care management mainly includes:

      * Allowing the tendon to rest. Your health care provider may ask you to wear a splint. Or, the provider may tape your finger to one of your other fingers (called buddy taping).
      * Applying heat and ice and stretching may also be helpful. 

Your provider may also give you a shot of a medicine called cortisone. The
shot goes into the tunnel that the tendon goes through. This can help reduce
swelling. Your provider may try a second shot if the first one does not work.

## Surgery for Trigger Finger

You may need surgery if your finger is locked in a bent position or does not
get better with other treatment. The surgery is done under local anesthesia or
a nerve block. This prevents pain. You may be awake during surgery.

During the surgery your surgeon will:

      * Make a small cut in your skin just below the tunnel (sheath covering the tendon) of your trigger finger.
      * Then make a small cut in the tunnel. If you are awake during surgery, you may be asked to move your finger.
      * Close your skin with stitches and put compression or tight bandage on your hand. 

After surgery:

      * Keep the bandage on for 48 hours. After that, you can use a simple bandage, like a Band-Aid.
      * Your stitches will be removed after about 2 weeks.
      * You can use your finger normally once it has healed. 

## When to Call the Doctor

If you notice signs of infection, call your surgeon right away. Signs of
infection include:

      * Redness in your cut or hand
      * Swelling or warmth in your cut or hand
      * Yellow or green drainage from the cut
      * Hand pain or discomfort
      * Fever 

If your trigger finger returns, call your surgeon. You may need another
surgery.

## Alternative Names

Digital stenosing tenosynovitis; Trigger digit; Trigger finger release; Locked
finger; Digital flexor tenosynovitis

## References

Bengtson KA, Silver JK. Trigger finger. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD,
eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 37.

Wolfe SW. Tendinopathy. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH,
Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 56.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Finger Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

