Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000572.htm    
                                Description: With this injury, the main ligament in your thumb is stretched or torn. The ligament is a strong fiber that attaches one bone to another bone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skier's thumb - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000572.htm

# Skier's thumb - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

With this injury, the main ligament in your thumb is stretched or torn. The
ligament is a strong fiber that attaches one bone to another bone.

This injury can be caused by any kind of fall with your thumb stretched out.
It often occurs during skiing.

At home, be sure to follow your doctor's instructions on how to take care of
your thumb so that it heals well.

## More About Your Injury

Thumb sprains can be mild to severe. They are ranked by how much the ligament
is pulled or torn away from the bone.

      * Grade 1: Ligaments are stretched, but not torn. This is a mild injury. It can improve with some light stretching.
      * Grade 2: Ligaments are partially torn. This injury may require wearing a splint or a cast for 5 to 6 weeks.
      * Grade 3: Ligaments are completely torn. This is a severe injury that may require surgery. 

Injuries that are not treated properly can lead to long-term weakness, pain,
or arthritis.

An x-ray may also show if the ligament has pulled off a piece of bone. This is
called an avulsion fracture.

## What to Expect

Common symptoms are:

      * Pain
      * Swelling
      * Bruising
      * A weaker pinch or problems grabbing things when you use your thumb 

If surgery is needed, the ligament is reconnected to the bone.

      * Your ligament may need to be reattached to the bone using a bone anchor.
      * If your bone is broken, a pin will be used to put it in place.
      * After surgery your hand and forearm will be in a cast or splint for 6 to 8 weeks.

## Relieving Your Symptoms

Make an ice pack by putting ice in a plastic bag and wrapping a cloth around
it.

      * DO NOT put the bag of ice directly on your skin. Cold from the ice can damage your skin.
      * Ice your thumb for about 20 minutes every hour while awake for the first 48 hours, then 2 to 3 times a day. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, and others) or naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn, and others). You can buy these medicines without a
prescription.

      * DO NOT use these medicines for the first 24 hours after your injury. They may increase the risk of bleeding.
      * If you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding, talk with your health care provider before using these medicines.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or more than your provider advises you to take. 

## Follow-up

As you recover, your provider will check how well your thumb is healing. You
will be told when your cast or splint can be removed and you can return to
your normal activities.

## Activity

At some point as you recover, your provider will ask you to begin exercises to
regain movement and strength in your thumb. This may be as soon as 3 weeks or
as long 8 weeks after your injury.

When you restart an activity after a sprain, build up slowly. If your thumb
begins to hurt, stop using it for a while.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider or go to the emergency room right away if you have:

      * Severe pain
      * Weakness in your thumb
      * Numb or cold fingers
      * Drainage or redness around the pins, if you had surgery to repair the tendon

Also call your provider if you have concerns about how well your thumb is
healing.

## Alternative Names

Sprained thumb; Stable thumb; Ulnar collateral ligament injury; Gamekeeper's
thumb

## References

Merrell G, Hastings H. Dislocations and ligament injuries of the digits. In:
Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's
Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Stearns DA, Peak DA. Hand. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Finger Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

