Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003248.htm    
                                Description: Finger pain is pain in one or more fingers. Injuries and many medical conditions can cause finger pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Finger pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003248.htm

# Finger pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Finger pain is pain in one or more fingers. Injuries and many medical
conditions can cause finger pain.

## Considerations

Nearly everyone has had finger pain at some time. You may have:

      * Tenderness
      * Burning
      * Stiffness
      * Numbness
      * Tingling
      * Coldness
      * Swelling
      * Change in skin color
      * Redness 

Many conditions, such as arthritis, can cause finger pain. Numbness or
tingling in the fingers may be a sign of a problem with nerves or blood flow.
Redness and swelling can be a sign of infection or inflammation.

## Causes

Injuries are a common cause of finger pain. Your finger may become injured
from:

      * Playing contact sports such as football, baseball, or soccer
      * Doing recreational activities such as skiing or tennis
      * Using machinery at home or work
      * Doing tasks at home, such as cooking, gardening, cleaning, or repairs
      * Falling
      * Getting into a fist fight or punching something
      * Doing repetitive movements like typing 

Injuries that can cause finger pain include:

      * Smashed fingers, such as from a hammer blow or a car door that crushes the finger.
      * Compartment syndrome, which is severe swelling and pressure in an area of muscles, nerves, and blood vessels. A crushing injury can cause this serious condition, which requires immediate medical attention.
      * Mallet finger, when you can't straighten your finger. Sports injuries are a common cause.
      * Finger strains, sprains, and bruises.
      * Broken finger bones.
      * Skier's thumb, an injury to the ligaments in your thumb, such as from a fall during skiing.
      * Cuts and puncture wounds.
      * Dislocation. 

Certain conditions can also cause finger pain:

      * Arthritis, the breakdown of cartilage in the joint that causes inflammation with pain, stiffness, and swelling.
      * Carpal tunnel syndrome, pressure on the nerve in the wrist, or other nerve problems causing numbness and pain in the hand and fingers.
      * Raynaud phenomenon, a condition that results in blocked blood flow to the fingers when it is cold.
      * Trigger finger, when a swollen finger tendon makes it hard to straighten or bend your finger.
      * Dupuytrens contracture, which causes tissue in the palm of the hand to become tighter. This makes it hard to straighten the fingers.
      * De Quervain tenosynovitis, which is pain in the tendons along the thumb side of the wrist from overuse.
      * Infections.
      * Tumors. 

## Home Care

Often, care at home is enough to relieve finger pain. Start by avoiding
activities that cause finger pain.

If finger pain is due to a minor injury:

      * Remove any rings in case of swelling.
      * Rest the finger joints so they can heal.
      * Apply ice and elevate the finger.
      * Use over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Motrin) or naprosyn (Aleve) to reduce both pain and swelling.
      * If needed, buddy tape the injured finger to the one next to it. This will help protect the injured finger as it heals. Don't tape it too tight, which can cut off circulation.
      * If you have a lot of swelling or the swelling does not go away in a day or so, see your health care provider. Small fractures or tendon or ligament tears can occur, and can lead to problems in the future if not treated correctly. 

If finger pain is due to a medical condition, follow your provider's
instructions for self-care. For example, if you have Raynaud phenomenon, take
steps to protect your hands from the cold.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Your finger pain is caused by injury
      * Your finger is deformed
      * The problem continues after 1 week of home treatment
      * You have numbness or tingling in your fingers
      * You have severe pain at rest
      * You can't straighten your fingers
      * You have redness, swelling, or fever 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam, which will include looking at your hand
and finger movement.

You will be asked questions about your medical history and symptoms.

You may have an x-ray of your hand.

Treatment depends on the cause of the problem.

## Alternative Names

Pain - finger

## References

Raftery AT, Lim E, ÃstÃ¶r AJK. Finger pain. In: Raftery AT, Lim E, ÃstÃ¶r
AJK, eds. _Churchill's Pocketbook of Differential Diagnosis_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:153-159.

Stearns DA, Peak DA. Hand. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Swigart CR, Fishman FG. Hand and wrist pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 50.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

