Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000018.htm    
                                Description: Smashed fingers is an injury involving trauma to one or more fingers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smashed fingers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000018.htm

# Smashed fingers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Smashed fingers is an injury involving trauma to one or more fingers.

## Considerations

If an injury to a finger occurs at the tip and does not involve the joint or
nail bed, you may not need the help of a health care provider. If only the tip
of your finger bone is broken, your provider may not recommend a splint.

## Causes

Fingers can be smashed by a hammer blow, car door, desk drawer, baseball, or
some other force.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Difficulty moving the tip of the finger
      * Discoloration or bruising of the finger or fingernail
      * Finger pain
      * Loss of fingernail
      * Swelling

## First Aid

Apply an ice pack to decrease swelling.Â Be sure to wrap the pack in a clean
cloth first to prevent cold injury to the skin.

Over-the-counter pain medicines may help relieve discomfort.

If pain becomes severe, with blood under the fingernail, call your provider.
Your provider may guide you in taking measures to relieve the pressure and
blood and prevent the fingernail from falling off.

## DO NOT

      * Do not splint a smashed finger without first consulting your provider.
      * Do not drain blood from under the fingernail unless your provider instructs you to do so.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical attention right away for any of the following:

      * The finger is bent and you can't straighten it.
      * The injury involves the palm or any of the joints, such as a finger or the wrist.

## Prevention

Teach safety to young children. Use caution when shutting doors to make sure
fingers are not in danger.

## Alternative Names

Finger(s) - smashed; Crushed digits

## Images

      * ![Smashed fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17216t.jpg)Smashed fingers

## References

Kamal RN, Gire JD. Tendon injuries in the hand. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee, Drez, and Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 73.

Stearns DA, Peak DA. Hand. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

