Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000123.htm    
                                Description: Empyema is a collection of pus in the space between the lung and the inner surface of the chest wall (pleural space).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Empyema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000123.htm

# Empyema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Empyema is a collection of pus in the space between the lung and the inner
surface of the chest wall (pleural space).

![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1103.jpg)

## Causes

Empyema is usually caused by an infection that spreads from the lung. It leads
to a buildup of pus in the pleural space.

There can be 2 cups (1/2 liter) or more of infected fluid. This fluid puts
pressure on the lungs.

Risk factors include:

      * Bacterial pneumonia
      * Tuberculosis
      * Chest surgery
      * Lung abscess
      * Trauma or injury to the chest 

In rare cases, empyema can occur after thoracentesis. This is a procedure in
which a needle is inserted through the chest wall to remove fluid in the
pleural space for medical diagnosis or treatment.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of empyema may include any of the following:

      * Chest pain, which worsens when you breathe in deeply (pleurisy)
      * Dry cough
      * Excessive sweating, especially night sweats
      * Fever and chills
      * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
      * Shortness of breath
      * Weight loss (unintentional) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may note decreased breath sounds or an abnormal sound
(friction rub) when listening to the chest with a stethoscope (auscultation).

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of chest
      * Pleural fluid analysisÂ 
      * Thoracentesis

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection. This involves the following:

      * Placing a tube in your chest to drain the pus
      * Giving you antibiotics to control the infection

If you have problems breathing, you may need surgery to help your lung expand
properly.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When empyema complicates pneumonia, the risk for permanent lung damage and
death goes up. Long-term treatment with antibiotics and drainage are needed.

In general, most people fully recover from empyema.

## Possible Complications

Having empyema may lead to the following:

      * Pleural thickening
      * Reduced lung function

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of empyema.

## Prevention

Prompt and effective treatment of lung infections may prevent some cases of
empyema.

## Alternative Names

Empyema - pleural; Pyothorax; Pleurisy - purulent

## Images

      * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
      * ![Chest tube insertion - series - Pleural cavity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7046t.jpg)Chest tube insertion - series

## References

Broaddus VC, Light RW. Pleural effusion. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

McCool FD. Diseases of the diaphragm, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 92.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

