Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001371.htm    
                                Description: Pleurisy is an inflammation of the lining of the lungs and chest (the pleura) that leads to chest pain when you take a breath or cough.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pleurisy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001371.htm

# Pleurisy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pleurisy is an inflammation of the lining of the lungs and chest (the pleura)
that leads to chest pain when you take a breath or cough.

## Causes

Pleurisy may develop when you have lung inflammation due to infection, such as
a viral infection, pneumonia, or tuberculosis.

It may also occur with:

      * Asbestos-related disease
      * Certain cancers
      * Chest trauma
      * Blood clot (pulmonary embolus) 
      * Rheumatoid arthritis
      * Lupus

## Symptoms

The main symptom of pleurisy is pain in the chest. This pain often occurs when
you take a deep breath in or out, or cough. Some people feel the pain in the
shoulder.

Deep breathing, coughing, and chest movement make the pain worse.

Pleurisy can cause fluid to collect inside the chest. As a result, the
following symptoms can occur:

      * Coughing
      * Shortness of breath
      * Rapid breathing
      * Pain with deep breaths

## Exams and Tests

When you have pleurisy, the normally smooth surfaces lining the lung (the
pleura) become rough. They rub together with each breath. This results in a
rough, grating sound called a friction rub. Your health care provider can hear
this sound with the stethoscope.

The provider may order the following tests:

      * CBC
      * X-ray of the chest
      * CT scan of the chest
      * Ultrasound of the chest
      * Removal of pleural fluid with a needle (thoracentesis) for analysis 

## Treatment

Treatment depends onÂ the cause ofÂ the pleurisy. Bacterial infections are
treated with antibiotics. Surgery may be needed to drain infected fluid from
the lungs. Viral infections normally run their course without medicines.

Taking acetaminophen or ibuprofen can help reduce pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery depends on the cause ofÂ the pleurisy.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may develop from pleurisy include:

      * Breathing difficulty
      * Fluid buildup between chest wall and lung
      * Complications from the original illness

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of pleurisy. If you have breathing
difficulty or your skin turns blue, seek medical care right away.

## Prevention

Early treatment of bacterial respiratory infections can prevent pleurisy.

## Alternative Names

Pleuritis; Pleuritic chest pain

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system overview](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9828t.jpg)Respiratory system overview

## References

Fenster BE, Lee-Chiong TL, Gebhart GF, Matthay RA. Chest pain. In: Broaddus
VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
31.

McCool FD. Diseases of the diaphragm, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 92.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

