Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000126.htm    
                                Description: Hemothorax is a collection of blood in the space between the chest wall and the lung (the pleural cavity).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemothorax

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000126.htm

# Hemothorax

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemothorax is a collection of blood in the space between the chest wall and
the lung (the pleural cavity).

## Causes

The most common cause of hemothorax is chest trauma. Hemothorax can also occur
in people who have:

      * Blood clotting defect
      * Chest (thoracic) or heart surgery
      * Death of lung tissue (pulmonary infarction)
      * Lung or pleural cancerÂ --Â primary or secondary (metastatic, or from another site)
      * Tear in a blood vessel when placing a central venous catheter or when associated with severe high blood pressure
      * Tuberculosis

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Anxiety
      * Chest pain
      * Low blood pressure (shock)
      * Pale, cool and clammy skin
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Rapid, shallow breathing
      * Restlessness
      * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may note decreased or absent breath sounds on the
affected side. Signs or findings of hemothorax may be seen on the following
tests:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CAT or CT scan
      * Pleural fluid analysis (often very bloody or blood-tinged)
      * Thoracentesis (drainage of pleural fluid through a needle or catheter) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to get the person stable, stop the bleeding, and
remove the blood and air in the pleural space.

      * A chest tube is inserted through the chest wall between the ribs to drain the blood and air.
      * It is left in place and attached to suction for several days to re-expand the lung. 

If a chest tube alone does not control the bleeding, surgery (thoracotomy) may
be needed to stop the bleeding.

The cause of the hemothorax will be also treated. The underlying lung may have
collapsed. This can lead to breathing difficulty. In people who have had an
injury, chest tube drainage may be all that is needed. Surgery may not be
necessary.

WHAT TO EXPECT AT THE EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as needed. The person may receive:

      * Breathing support -- This may include oxygen, endotracheal intubation (tube through the nose or mouth into the trachea) and ventilator (breathing machine)
      * Blood tests and possible blood transfusion
      * Chest tube (tube through the skin and muscles between the ribs into the space around the lungs) if there is lung collapse
      * CAT/CT scan
      * Pleural fluid analysis (fluid is often very bloody or blood-tinged)
      * EKG
      * Fluids given through the vein (IV)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms
      * X-rays of chest and abdomen or other parts of the body if there are additional injuries

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the cause of the hemothorax, the amount of blood loss
and how quickly treatment is given.

In the case of major trauma, the outcome will depend on the severity of the
injury and the rate of bleeding.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Collapsed lung, or pneumothorax, leading to respiratory failure (inability to breathe properly, provide the body enough oxygen and remove carbon dioxide)
      * Fibrosis or scarring of the pleural membranes and underlying lung tissue
      * Infection of the pleural fluid (empyema)
      * Shock and death in severe circumstances 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if you have:

      * Any serious injury to the chest
      * Chest pain or shortness of breath 

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have:

      * Dizziness, lightheadedness, fever and cough, or a feeling of heaviness in your chest
      * Severe chest, neck, jaw, shoulder or arm pain
      * Severe difficulty breathing

## Prevention

Use safety measures (such as seat belts) to avoid injury. Depending on the
cause, a hemothorax may not be preventable.

## Images

      * ![Aortic rupture - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1149t.jpg)Aortic rupture - chest x-ray
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system
      * ![Chest tube insertion - series - Pleural cavity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7046t.jpg)Chest tube insertion - series

## References

Moore SM, Pieracci FM, Jurkovich GJ. Chest wall, pneumothorax, and hemothorax.
In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy._ 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:1151-1158.

Raja AS. Thoracic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

Light RW, Lee YCG. Pneumothorax, chylothorax, hemothorax, and fibrothorax. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray & Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
81.

## Review Date 6/24/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Collapsed
Lung](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CollapsedLung_thumb.jpg)Collapsed Lung
_Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

