Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003420.htm    
                                Description: Thoracentesis is a procedure to remove fluid from the space between the lining of the outside of the lungs (pleura) and the wall of the chest.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thoracentesis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003420.htm

# Thoracentesis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thoracentesis is a procedure to remove fluid from the space between the lining
of the outside of the lungs (pleura) and the wall of the chest.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in the following way:

      * You sit on a bed or on the edge of a chair or bed. Your head and arms rest on a table.
      * The skin around the procedure site is cleaned. A local numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected into the skin.
      * A needle is placed through the skin and muscles of the chest wall into the space around the lungs, called the pleural space. The health care provider may use ultrasound to find the best spot to insert the needle.
      * You may be asked to hold your breath or breathe out during the procedure.
      * You should not cough, breathe deeply, or move during the test to avoid injury to the lung.
      * Fluid is drawn out with the needle.
      * The needle is removed and the area is bandaged.
      * The fluid may be sent to a laboratory for testing (pleural fluid analysis). 

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed before the test. A chest x-ray or ultrasound
will be done before and after the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a stinging sensation when the local anesthetic is injected. You
may feel pain or pressure when the needle is inserted into the pleural space.

Tell your provider if you feel short of breath or haveÂ chest pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

Normally, very little fluid is in the pleural space. A buildup of too much
fluid between the layers of the pleura is called a pleural effusion.

The test is performed to determine the cause of the extra fluid, or to relieve
symptoms from the fluid buildup.

## Normal Results

Normally the pleural cavity contains only a very small amount of fluid.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Testing the fluid will help your provider determine the cause of pleural
effusion. Possible causes include:

      * Cancer
      * Liver failure
      * Heart failure
      * Low protein levels
      * Kidney disease
      * Trauma or post-surgery
      * Asbestos-related pleural effusion
      * Collagen vascular disease (class of diseases in which the body's immune system attacks its own tissues)
      * Drug reactions
      * Collection of blood in the pleural space (hemothorax)
      * Lung cancerÂ 
      * Swelling and inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
      * Pneumonia
      * Blockage of an artery in the lungs (pulmonary embolism)
      * Severely underactive thyroid gland

If your provider suspects that you have an infection, a culture of the fluid
may be done to test for bacteria.

## Risks

Risks may include any of the following:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)
      * Respiratory distress 

## Considerations

A chest x-ray is commonly done after the procedure to detect possible
complications.

## Alternative Names

Pleural fluid aspiration; Pleural tap

## References

Blok BK. Thoracentesis. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Thoracentesis - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1068-1070.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

