Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007312.htm    
                                Description: Pneumothorax is the collection of air or gas in the space inside the chest around the lungs, which leads to a lung collapse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumothorax - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007312.htm

# Pneumothorax - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumothorax is the collection of air or gas in the space inside the chest
around the lungs, which leads to a lung collapse.

This article discusses pneumothorax in infants.

## Causes

A pneumothorax occurs when some of the tiny air sacs (alveoli) in a baby's
lung become overinflated and burst. This causes air to leak into the space
between the lung and chest wall (pleural space).

The most common cause of pneumothorax is respiratory distress syndrome. This
is a condition that occurs in babies who are born too early (premature).

      * The baby's lungs lack the slippery substance (surfactant) that helps them stay open (inflated). Therefore, the tiny air sacs are not able to expand as easily.
      * If the baby needs a breathing machine (mechanical ventilator), extra pressure on the baby's lungs, from the machine can sometimes burst the air sacs. 

Meconium aspiration syndrome is another cause of pneumothorax in newborns.

      * Before or during birth, the baby may breathe in the first bowel movement, called meconium. This may obstruct the airways and cause breathing problems.
      * If the baby needs a breathing machine (mechanical ventilator), extra pressure on the baby's lungs from the machine can sometimes burst the air sacs. 

Other causes include pneumonia (infection of the lung) or underdeveloped lung
tissue.

Less commonly, an otherwise healthy infant can develop an air leak when he or
she takes the first few breaths after birth. This occurs because of the
pressure needed to expand the lungs for the first time. There may be genetic
factors which lead to this problem.

## Symptoms

Many infants with pneumothorax do not have symptoms. When symptoms do occur,
they can include:

      * Bluish skin color (cyanosis)
      * Fast breathing
      * Flaring of the nostrils
      * Grunting with breathing
      * Irritability
      * Restlessness
      * Use of other chest and abdominal muscles to aid breathing (retractions) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may have difficulty hearing breath sounds when
listening to the infant's lungs with a stethoscope. The heart or lung sounds
may seem as if they are coming from a different part of the chest than is
normal.

Tests for pneumothorax include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Light probe placed against the baby's chest, also known as "transillumination" (pockets of air will show up as lighter areas) 

## Treatment

Babies without symptoms may not need treatment. The health care team will
monitor your baby's breathing, heart rate, oxygen level, and skin color.
Supplemental oxygen will be provided if needed.

If your baby is having symptoms, the provider will place a needle or thin tube
called a catheter into the baby's chest to remove the air that has leaked into
the chest space.

Since treatment will also depend on the lung issues that led to the
pneumothorax, it may last for days to weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some air leaks will go away within a few days without treatment. Infants who
have the air removed with a needle or catheter often do well after treatment
if there are no other lung problems.

## Possible Complications

As air builds up in the chest, it can push the heart toward the other side of
the chest. This puts pressure on both the lung that hasn't collapsed and the
heart. This condition is called tension pneumothorax. It is a medical
emergency.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A pneumothorax is often discovered shortly after birth. Call your provider if
your infant has symptoms of pneumothorax.

## Prevention

The providers in the newborn intensive care unit (NICU) should watch your
infant carefully for signs of an air leak.

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary air leak; Pneumothorax - neonatal

## Images

      * ![Pneumothorax](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22702t.jpg)Pneumothorax

## References

Crowley MA. Neonatal respiratory disorders. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh
MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

Winnie GB, Lossef SV. Pneumothorax. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 411.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Collapsed
Lung](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CollapsedLung_thumb.jpg)Collapsed Lung
_Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

