Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000087.htm    
                                Description: A collapsed lung occurs when air escapes from the lung. The air then fills the space outside of the lung, between the lung and chest wall. This buildup of air puts pressure on the lung, so it cannot expand    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000087.htm

# Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A collapsed lung occurs when air escapes from the lung. The air then fills the
space outside of the lung, between the lung and chest wall. This buildup of
air puts pressure on the lung, so it cannot expand as much as it normally does
when you take a breath.

The medical name of this condition is pneumothorax.

## Causes

Collapsed lung can be caused by an injury to the lung. Injuries can include a
gunshot or knife wound to the chest, rib fracture, or certain medical
procedures.

In some cases, a collapsed lung is caused by air blisters (blebs) that break
open, sending air into the space around the lung. This can result from air
pressure changes such as when scuba diving or traveling to a high altitude.

Tall, thin people and smokers are more at risk for a collapsed lung.

Lung diseases can also increase the chance of getting a collapsed lung. These
include:

      * Asthma
      * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Tuberculosis
      * Whooping cough

In some cases, a collapsed lung occurs without any cause. This is called a
spontaneous collapsed lung.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of a collapsed lung include:

      * Sharp chest or shoulder pain, made worse by a deep breath or a cough
      * Shortness of breath
      * Nasal flaring (from shortness of breath)

A larger pneumothorax causes more severe symptoms, including:

      * Bluish color of the skin due to lack of oxygen
      * Chest tightness
      * Lightheadedness and near fainting
      * Easy fatigue
      * Abnormal breathing patterns or increased effort of breathing
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Shock and collapse

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to your breathing with a stethoscope. If
you have a collapsed lung, there are decreased breath sounds or no breath
sounds on the affected side. You may also have low blood pressure.

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Arterial blood gasesÂ and other blood tests
      * CT scan if other injuries or conditions are suspected
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)

## Treatment

A small pneumothorax may go away on its own over time. You may only need
oxygen treatment and rest.

The provider may use a needle to allow the air to escape from around the lung
so it can expand more fully. You may be allowed to go home if you live near
the hospital.

If you have a large pneumothorax, a chest tube will be placed between the ribs
into the space around the lungs to help drain the air and allow the lung to
re-expand. The chest tube may be left in place for several days and you may
need to stay in the hospital. If a small chest tube or flutter valve is used,
you may be able to go home. You will need to return to the hospital to have
the tube or valve removed.

Some people with a collapsed lung need extra oxygen.

Lung surgery may be needed to treatÂ collapsed lung or to prevent future
episodes. The area where the leak occurred may be repaired. Sometimes, a
special chemical is placed into the area of the collapsed lung. This chemical
causes a scar to form. This procedure is called pleurodesis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If you have a collapsed lung, you are more likely to have another one in the
future if you:

      * Are tall and thin 
      * Continue to smoke 
      * Have had two collapsed lung episodes in the past 

How well you do after having a collapsed lung depends on what caused it.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include any of the following:

      * Another collapsed lung in the future
      * Shock,Â if there are serious injuries or infection, severe inflammation, or fluid in the lung develops

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of a collapsed lung, especially if you
have had one before.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent a collapsed lung. Following standard
procedure can reduce the risk of a pneumothorax when scuba diving.Â You can
decrease your risk by not smoking.

## Alternative Names

Air around the lung; Air outside the lung; Pneumothorax dropped lung;
Spontaneous pneumothorax

## Images

      * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
      * ![Aortic rupture - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1149t.jpg)Aortic rupture - chest x-ray
      * ![Pneumothorax - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1718t.jpg)Pneumothorax - chest x-ray
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system
      * ![Chest tube insertion - series - Pleural cavity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7046t.jpg)Chest tube insertion - series
      * ![Pneumothorax - series - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15204t.jpg)Pneumothorax - series

## References

Byyny RL, Shockley LW. Scuba diving and dysbarism. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

Light RW, Lee YCG. Pneumothorax, chylothorax, hemothorax, and fibrothorax. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
81.

Raja AS. Thoracic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Collapsed
Lung](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CollapsedLung_thumb.jpg)Collapsed Lung
_Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

