Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003721.htm    
                                Description: Pleural fluid smear is a laboratory test to check for bacteria, fungi, or abnormal cells in a sample of the fluid that has collected in the pleural space. This is the space between the lining of the outside    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pleural fluid smear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003721.htm

# Pleural fluid smear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pleural fluid smear is a laboratory test to check for bacteria, fungi, or
abnormal cells in a sample of the fluid that has collected in the pleural
space. This is the space between the lining of the outside of the lungs
(pleura) and the wall of the chest. When fluid collects in the pleural space,
the condition is called pleural effusion.

## How the Test is Performed

A procedure called thoracentesis is used to get a sample of pleural fluid. The
health care provider examines a sample of pleural fluid under the microscope.
If bacteria or fungi are found, other methods may be used to further identify
those organisms.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed before the test. A chest x-ray will be
performed before and after the test.

DO NOT cough, breathe deeply, or move during the test to avoid injury to the
lung.

## How the Test will Feel

For thoracentesis, you sit on the edge of a chair or bed with your head and
arms resting on a table. The provider cleans the skin around the insertion
site. Numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected into the skin.

A needle is placed through the skin and muscles of the chest wall into the
space around the lungs, called the pleural space. As fluid drains into a
collection bottle, you may cough a bit. This is because your lung re-expands
to fill the space where fluid had been. This sensation lasts for a few hours
after the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed if you have a pleural effusion and its cause is not
known, especially if the provider suspects an infection or cancer.

## Normal Results

Normally, no bacteria, fungi, or cancer cells are present in the pleural
fluid.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Positive results may indicate that infection, or cancer cells, are present.
Other tests can help identify the specific type of infection or cancer.
Sometimes, the test may show abnormalities (such as special types of cells)
from conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus.

## Risks

Risks of thoracentesis are:

      * Collapse of the lung (pneumothorax)
      * Excessive loss of blood
      * Fluid re-accumulation
      * Infection
      * Pulmonary edema
      * Respiratory distress

## Images

      * ![Pleural smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9752t.jpg)Pleural smear

## References

Broaddus VC, Light RW. Pleural effusion. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Thoracentesis - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1068-1070.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

