Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000781.htm    
                                Description: A chronic subdural hematoma is an &quot;old&quot; collection of blood and blood breakdown products between the surface of the brain and its outermost covering (the dura). The chronic phase of a subdural hematoma    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic subdural hematoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000781.htm

# Chronic subdural hematoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chronic subdural hematoma is an "old" collection of blood and blood
breakdown products between the surface of the brain and its outermost covering
(the dura). The chronic phase of a subdural hematoma begins several weeks
after the first bleeding.

## Causes

A subdural hematoma develops when bridging veins tear and leak blood. These
are the tiny veins that run between the dura and surface of the brain. This is
usually the result of a head injury.

A collection of blood then forms over the surface of the brain. In a chronic
subdural collection, blood leaks from the veins slowly over time, or a fast
hemorrhage is left to clear up on its own.

A subdural hematoma is more common in older adults because of normal brain
shrinkage that occurs with aging. This shrinkage stretches and weakens the
bridging veins. These veins are more likely to break in older adults, even
after a minor head injury. You or your family may not remember any injury that
could explain it.

Risks include:

      * Long-term heavy alcohol use
      * Long-term use of aspirin, anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, or blood thinning (anticoagulant) medicine such as warfarin
      * Diseases that lead to reduced blood clotting
      * Head injury
      * Old age

## Symptoms

In some cases, there may be no symptoms. However, depending on the size of the
hematoma and where it presses on the brain, any of the following symptoms may
occur:

      * Confusion or coma
      * Decreased memory
      * Problem speaking or swallowing
      * Trouble walking
      * Drowsiness
      * Headache
      * Seizures
      * Weakness or numbness of arms, legs, face 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will ask about your medical history. The physical
exam will include a careful check of your brain and nervous system for
problems with:

      * Balance
      * Coordination
      * Mental functions
      * Sensation
      * Strength
      * Walking 

If there is any suspicion of a hematoma, an imaging test, such as a CT or MRI,
scan will be done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control symptoms and reduce or prevent permanent
damage to the brain. Medicines may be used to control or prevent seizures.

Surgery may be needed. This may include drilling small holes in the skull to
relieve pressure and allow blood and fluids to be drained. Large hematomas or
solid blood clots may need to be removed through a larger opening in the skull
(craniotomy).

Hematomas that do not cause symptoms may not require treatment. Chronic
subdural hematomas often come back after being drained. Therefore, it is
sometimes better to leave them alone unless they are causing symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Chronic subdural hematomas that cause symptoms usually do not heal on their
own over time. They often require surgery, especially when there are
neurologic problems, seizures, or chronic headaches.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Permanent brain damage
      * Persistent symptoms, such as anxiety, confusion, difficulty paying attention, dizziness, headache, and memory loss
      * Seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you or a family member has symptoms of
chronic subdural hematoma. For example, if you see symptoms of confusion,
weakness, or numbness weeks or months after a head injury in an older adult,
call the provider right away.

Take the person to the emergency room or call 911 if the person:

      * Has convulsions (seizures)
      * Is not alert (loses consciousness)

## Prevention

Avoid head injuries by using seat belts, bicycle and motorcycle helmets, and
hard hats when appropriate.

## Alternative Names

Subdural hemorrhage - chronic; Subdural hematoma - chronic; Subdural hygroma

## References

Chari A, Kolias AG, Borg N, Hutchinson PJ, Santarius T. Medical and surgical
management of chronic subdural hematomas. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn
Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Stippler M. Craniocerebral trauma. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 62.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

