Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001068.htm    
                                Description: A CSF leak is an escape of the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. This fluid is called the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF leak

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001068.htm

# CSF leak

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A CSF leak is an escape of the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.
This fluid is called the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).

## Causes

Any tear or hole in the membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord
(dura) can allow the fluid that surrounds those organs to leak. When it leaks
out, the pressure around the brain and spinal cord drops.

Causes of leakage through the dura include:

      * Certain head, brain, or spinal surgeries
      * Head injury
      * Placement of tubes for epidural anesthesia or pain medicines
      * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture)

Sometimes, no cause can be found. This is called a spontaneous CSF leak.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * A headache that is worse when you sit up and improves when you lie down. It may be associated with light sensitivity, nausea, and neck stiffness.
      * Drainage of CSF from the ear (rarely).
      * Drainage of CSF from the nose (rarely).

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. Tests may include:

      * CT scan of the head with contrast dye
      * CT myelogram of the spine
      * MRI of the head or spine
      * Radioisotope test of the CSF to track the leakage

## Treatment

Depending on the cause of the leak, many symptoms improve on their own after a
few days. Complete bed rest for several days is usually recommended. Drinking
more fluids, especially drinks with caffeine, can help slow or stop the leak
and may help with headache pain.

Headache may be treated with pain relievers and fluids. If the headache lasts
longer than a week after a lumbar puncture, a procedure may be done to block
the hole that may be leaking fluid. This is called a blood patch, because a
blood clot can be used to seal the leak. In most cases, this makes symptoms go
away. In rare cases, surgery is needed to repair the tear in the dura and stop
the headache.

If symptoms of infection (fever, chills, change in mental status) are present,
they need to be treated with antibiotics.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook is usually good depending on the cause. Most cases heal by themselves
with no lasting symptoms.

If the CSF leak keeps coming back, high pressure of the CSF (hydrocephalus)
might be the cause and should be treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications may occur if the cause is surgery or trauma. Infections after
surgery or trauma can lead to meningitis and serious complications, such as
swelling of the brain, and need to be treated right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have a headache that gets worse when you sit up, especially if you have recently had a head injury, surgery, or childbirth involving epidural anesthesia.
      * You have a moderate head injury, and then develop a headache that is worse when you sit up, or you have a thin, clear fluid draining from your nose or ear.

## Prevention

Most CSF leaks are a complication of a spinal tap or surgery. The provider
should use the smallest needle possible when doing a spinal tap.

## Alternative Names

Intracranial hypotension; Cerebrospinal fluid leak

## Images

      * ![Cerebrospinal fluid leak](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9240t.jpg)Cerebrospinal fluid leak

## References

Osorio JA, Saigal R, Chou D. Neurologic complications of common spine
operations. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC, eds. _Benzel's Spine Surgery_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 202.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anesthesia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anesthesia_thumb.jpg)Anesthesia
_Read more_

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

