Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003411.htm    
                                Description: Intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring uses a device placed inside the head. The monitor senses the pressure inside the skull and sends measurements to a recording device.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intracranial pressure monitoring

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003411.htm

# Intracranial pressure monitoring

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring uses a device placed inside the head.
The monitor senses the pressure inside the skull and sends measurements to a
recording device.

## How the Test is Performed

There are three ways to monitor ICP. ICP is the pressure in the skull.

INTRAVENTRICULAR CATHETER

The intraventricular catheter is the most accurate monitoring method.

To insert an intraventricular catheter, a hole is drilled through the skull.
The catheter is inserted through the brain into the lateral ventricle. This
area of the brain contains cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is a liquid that
protects the brain and spinal cord.

The intraventricular catheter can also be used to drain fluid out through the
catheter.

The catheter may be hard to get into place when the intracranial pressure is
high.

SUBDURAL SCREW (BOLT)

This method is used if monitoring needs to be done right away. A hollow screw
is inserted through a hole drilled in the skull. It is placed through the
membrane that protects the brain and spinal cord (dura mater). This allows the
sensor to record from inside the subdural space.

EPIDURAL SENSOR

An epidural sensor is inserted between the skull and dural tissue. The
epidural sensor is placed through a hole drilled in the skull. This procedure
is less invasive than other methods, but it cannot remove excess CSF.

Lidocaine or another local anesthetic will be injected at the site where the
cut will be made. You will most likely get a sedative to help you relax.

      * First the area is shaved and cleansed with antiseptic.
      * After the area is dry, a surgical cut is made. The skin is pulled back until the skull is seen.
      * A drill is then used to cut through the bone.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, this procedure is done when a person is in the hospital
intensive care unit. If you are awake and aware, your health care provider
will explain the procedure and the risks. You will have to sign a consent
form.

## How the Test will Feel

If the procedure is done using general anesthesia, you will be asleep and
pain-free. When you wake up, you will feel the normal side effects of
anesthesia. You will also have some discomfort from the cut made in your
skull.

If the procedure is done under local anesthesia, you will be awake. Numbing
medicine will be injected to the place where the cut is to be made. This will
feel like a prick on your scalp, like a bee sting. You may feel a tugging
sensation as the skin is cut and pulled back. You will hear a drill sound as
it cuts through the skull. The amount of time this takes will depend on the
type of drill that is used. You will also feel a tugging as the surgeon
sutures the skin back together after the procedure.

Your provider may give you mild pain medicines to ease your discomfort. You
will not get strong pain medicines, because your provider will want to check
for signs of brain function.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to measure ICP. It may be done when there is a
severe head injury or brain/nervous system disease. It also may be done after
surgery to remove a tumor or fix damage to a blood vessel if the surgeon is
worried about brain swelling.

High ICP can be treated by draining CSF through the catheter. It can also be
treated by:

      * Changing the ventilator settings for people who are on a respirator
      * Giving certain medicines through a vein (intravenously)Â 

## Normal Results

Normally, the ICP ranges from 1 to 20 mm Hg.

Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High ICP means that both nervous system and blood vessel tissues are under
pressure. If not treated, this can lead to permanent damage. In some cases, it
can be life threatening.

## Risks

Risks from the procedure may include:

      * Bleeding
      * Brain herniation or injury from the increased pressure
      * Damage to the brain tissue
      * Inability to find the ventricle and place catheter
      * Infection
      * Risks of general anesthesia 

## Alternative Names

ICP monitoring; CSF pressure monitoring

## Images

      * ![Intracranial pressure monitoring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9480t.jpg)Intracranial pressure monitoring

## References

Huang MC, Wang VY, Manley GT. Intracranial pressure monitoring. In: Winn HR,
ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap15.

Oddo M, Vincent J-L. Intracranial pressure monitoring. In: Vincent J-L,
Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical Care_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap E20.

Rabinstein AA, Fugate JE. Principles of neurointensive care. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

Robba C. Intracranial pressure monitoring. In: Prabhakar H, ed.
_Neuromonitoring Techniques_. 1st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

