Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000163.htm    
                                Description: Someone you know was in the hospital for a serious brain injury. At home, it will take time for them to feel better. This article describes what to expect during their recovery and how to help them at    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain injury - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000163.htm

# Brain injury - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Someone you know was in the hospital for a serious brain injury. At home, it
will take time for them to feel better. This article describes what to expect
during their recovery and how to help them at home.

## When You're in the Hospital

First, health care providers provided treatment to prevent any further damage
to the brain, and to help the heart, lungs, and other important parts of the
body.

After the person became stable, treatment was done to help them recover from
the brain injury. The person may have stayed in a special unit that helps
people with brain injuries.

## What to Expect at Home

People with a serious brain injury improve at their own pace. Some skills,
such as movement or speech, may go back and forth between getting better and
then worse. But usually there is improvement.

## Behavior and Social Interaction

People may display inappropriate behavior after a brain injury. It is OK to
point out when behavior is not appropriate. Explain the reason and suggest a
different behavior. Offer praise when the person calms down or changes their
behavior.

Sometimes suggesting a new activity or a new place to go is the best option.

It is important for family members and others to stay calm.

      * Try to ignore angry behavior. DO NOT make a face or show anger or judgment.
      * The providers will teach you when to decide to step in and when to ignore certain behavior.

## Muscles, Joints, and Movement

At home, the person who had the brain injury may need to practice everyday
activities. It may help to create a routine. This means certain activities are
done at the same time each day.

The providers will help you decide how independent the person can be and when
you can leave them alone. Make sure your home is safe so injuries do not
happen. This includes making the bathroom safe, for either a child or an
adult, and protecting against falls.

Family and caregivers may need to help the person with the following:

      * Exercising the elbows, shoulders, and other joints, to keep them loose
      * Watching for joint tightening (contractures)
      * Making sure splints are used in the correct way
      * Making sure arms and legs are in a good position when sitting or lying
      * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms

If the person is using a wheelchair, they will need follow-up visits with
their provider to make sure it fits well. The person also needs to change
positions in the wheelchair several times an hour during the day, to help
prevent skin ulcers.

Learn to make your home safer if the person with the brain injury wanders in
or from the home.

## Diet and Swallowing

Some people with brain injuries forget about eating. If so, help them learn to
add extra calories. Talk with the provider if the person is a child. Children
need to get enough calories and nutrition to grow. Ask the provider if you
need the advice of a dietitian.

If the person with the brain injury has problems with swallowing, help them
follow any special diet that makes eating safer. Ask the provider what the
signs of swallowing problems are. Learn tips to make feeding and swallowing
easier and safer.

## Tips for Daily Life

Tips for making clothing easier to put on and take off:

      * Do not give the person too many choices.
      * Velcro is much easier than buttons and zippers. If the clothing has buttons or zippers, they should be in the front.
      * Use pullover clothes when possible and slip on shoes.

Tips for talking to the person with a brain injury (if they have problems
understanding):

      * Keep distractions and noise down. Move to a quieter room.
      * Use simple words and sentences, speak slowly. Keep your voice lower. Repeat if needed. Use familiar names and places. Tell them when you are going to change the subject.
      * If possible, make eye contact before touching or speaking to them.
      * Ask questions so the person can answer "yes" or "no." When possible, give clear choices. Use props or visual prompts when possible. Do not give the person too many options.

When giving instructions:

      * Break down instructions into small and simple steps.
      * Allow time for the person to understand.
      * If the person becomes frustrated, take a break or consider redirecting them to another activity.

Try using other methods of communicating:

      * You may want to use pointing, hand gestures, or drawings.
      * Develop a book with pictures of words or photographs to use when communicating about common topics or people.

## Bladder, Bowels, and Bathing

Have a routine. Once the person finds a bowel routine that works, help them
stick with it. Pick a regular time, such as after a meal or a warm bath.

      * Be patient. It may take 15 to 45 minutes for the person to have bowel movements.
      * Try having the person gently rub their stomach to help stool move through their colon. 

The person may have problems starting to urinate or emptying all of the urine
out of their bladder. The bladder may empty too often or at the wrong time.
The bladder may become too full, and they may leak urine out of the overfilled
bladder.

Some men and women may need to use a urinary catheter. This is a thin tube
that is inserted into the bladder. Learn how to care for the catheter.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the person's provider if they have:

      * Problems taking drugs for muscle spasms
      * Problems moving their joints (joint contracture)
      * Problems moving around or it is getting harder for them to transfer out of a bed or chair
      * Skin sores or redness
      * Pain that is becoming worse
      * Choking or coughing when eating
      * Signs of a bladder infection (fever, burning with urination, or frequent urination)
      * Behavior issues that are hard to manage

## Alternative Names

Head injury - discharge; Head trauma - discharge; Contusion - discharge;
Shaken baby syndrome - discharge

## References

Brain Injury Association of America website. Adults: what to expect at home.
www.biausa.org/brain-injury-family-caregivers.htm#Manage the Home. Accessed
November 20, 2018.

Dobkin BH. Neurological rehabilitation. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 57.

Family Caregiver Alliance; National Center on Caregiving website. Traumatic
brain injury. www.caregiver.org/traumatic-brain-injury. Updated 2015. Accessed
November 20, 2018.

## Read More

      * Brain herniation
      * Head injury - first aid

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety - children
      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms 
      * Concussion in adults - discharge
      * Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor
      * Concussion in children - discharge
      * Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor
      * Daily bowel care program
      * Preventing falls
      * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Traumatic Brain Injury

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

