Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000890.htm    
                                Description: HELLP syndrome is a group of symptoms that occur in pregnant women who have:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HELLP syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000890.htm

# HELLP syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

HELLP syndrome is a group of symptoms that occur in pregnant women who have:

      * H: hemolysis (the breakdown of red blood cells)
      * EL: elevated liver enzymes
      * LP: low platelet count

## Causes

The cause of HELLP syndrome has not been found.Â It is considered to be a
variant of preeclampsia. Sometimes the presence of HELLP syndrome is due to an
underlying disease such as antiphospholipid syndrome.

HELLP syndrome occurs in about 1 to 2 out of 1,000 pregnancies. In women with
preeclampsia or eclampsia, the condition develops in 10% to 20% of
pregnancies.

Most often HELLP develops during the third trimester of pregnancy (between 26
to 40 weeks gestation). Sometimes it develops in the week after the baby is
born.

Many women have high blood pressure and are diagnosed with preeclampsia before
they develop HELLP syndrome. In some cases, HELLP symptoms are the first
warning of preeclampsia. The condition is sometimes misdiagnosed as:

      * Flu or other viral illness
      * Gallbladder disease
      * Hepatitis
      * Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)
      * Lupus flare
      * Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Fatigue or feeling unwell
      * Fluid retention and excess weight gain
      * Headache
      * Nausea and vomiting that continues to get worse
      * Pain in the upper right or mid part of the abdomen
      * Blurry vision
      * Nosebleed or other bleeding that will not stop easily (rare)
      * Seizures or convulsions (rare) 

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider may discover:

      * Abdominal tenderness, especially in the right upper side
      * Enlarged liver
      * High blood pressure
      * Swelling in the legs

Liver function tests (liver enzymes) may be high. Platelet counts may be low.
A CT scan may show bleeding into the liver.Â Excessive protein may be found in
the urine.

Tests of the baby's health will be done. Tests include fetal non-stress testÂ
andÂ ultrasound, among others.

## Treatment

The main treatment is to deliver the baby as soon as possible, even if the
baby is premature. Problems with the liver and other complications of HELLP
syndrome can quickly get worse and be harmful to both the mother and child.

Your provider may induce labor by giving you medicines to start labor, or may
perform a C-section.

You may also receive:

      * A blood transfusion if bleeding problems become severe
      * Corticosteroid medicines to help the baby's lungs develop faster
      * Medicines to treat high blood pressure
      * Magnesium sulfate infusion to prevent seizures

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcomes are most often good if the problem is diagnosed early. It is very
important to have regular prenatal checkups. You should also let your provider
know right away if you have symptoms of this condition.

When the condition is not treated early, up to 1 of 4 women develop serious
complications. Without treatment, a small number of women die.

The death rate among babies born to mothers with HELLP syndrome depends on
birth weight and the development of the baby's organs, especially the lungs.
Many babies are born prematurely (born before 37 weeks of pregnancy).

HELLP syndrome may return in up to 1 out of 4 future pregnancies.

## Possible Complications

There can be complications before and after the baby is delivered, including:

      * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). A clotting disorder that leads to excess bleeding (hemorrhage).
      * Fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)
      * Kidney failure
      * Liver hemorrhage and failure
      * Separation of the placenta from the uterine wall (placental abruption) 

After the baby is born, HELLP syndrome goes away in most cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If symptoms of HELLP syndrome occur during pregnancy:

      * See your provider right away.
      * Call the local emergency number (such as 911).
      * Get to the hospital emergency room or labor and delivery unit.

There is no known way to prevent HELLP syndrome. All pregnant women should
start prenatal care early and continue it through the pregnancy. This allows
the provider to find and treat conditions such as HELLP syndrome right away.

## Images

      * ![Preeclampsia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17270t.jpg)Preeclampsia

## References

Esposti SD, Reinus JF. Gastrointestinal and hepatic disorders in the pregnant
patient. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 39.

Sibai BM. Preeclampsia and hypertensive disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PresiÃ³n arterial alta en el
embarazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressureinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

