Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000898.htm    
                                Description: Preeclampsia is high blood pressure and signs of liver or kidney damage that occur in women after the 20th week of pregnancy. While rare, preeclampsia also may occur in a woman after delivering her baby,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preeclampsia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000898.htm

# Preeclampsia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Preeclampsia is high blood pressure and signs of liver or kidney damage that
occur in women after the 20th week of pregnancy. While rare, preeclampsia also
may occur in a woman after delivering her baby, most often within 48 hours.
This is called postpartum preeclampsia.

![Preeclampsia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200066t.gif)Watch
this video about:Preeclampsia

## Causes

The exact cause of preeclampsia is unknown. It occurs in about 3% to 7% of all
pregnancies. The condition is thought to start in the placenta. Factors that
may lead to preeclampsia developing include:

      * Autoimmune disorders
      * Blood vessel problems
      * Your diet
      * Your genes 

Risk factors for the condition include:

      * First pregnancy
      * Past history of preeclampsia
      * Multiple pregnancy (twins or more)
      * Family history of preeclampsia
      * Obesity
      * Being older than age 35
      * Being African-American  

      * History of diabetes, high blood pressure, or kidney disease 

## Symptoms

Often, women who have preeclampsia do not feel sick.

Symptoms of preeclampsia can include:

      * Swelling of the hands and face or eyes (edema)
      * Sudden weight gain over 1 to 2 days or more than 2 pounds (0.9 kg) a week 

Note: Some swelling of the feet and ankles is considered normal during
pregnancy.

Symptoms of severe preeclampsia include:

      * Headache that does not go away or becomes worse.
      * Trouble breathing.
      * Belly pain on the right side, below the ribs. Pain may also be felt in the right shoulder, and can be confused with heartburn, gallbladder pain, a stomach virus, or kicking by the baby.
      * Not urinating very often.
      * Nausea and vomiting (a worrisome sign).
      * Vision changes, including temporary blindness, seeing flashing lights or spots, sensitivity to light, and blurry vision.
      * Feel lightheaded or faint.Â 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. This may show:

      * High blood pressure, often higher than 140/90 mm Hg
      * Swelling in the hands and face
      * Weight gain 

Blood and urine tests will be done. This may show:

      * Protein in the urine (proteinuria)
      * Higher-than-normal liver enzymes
      * Platelet count that is low
      * Higher-than-normal creatinine levels in your blood 

Tests will also be done to:

      * See how well your blood clots
      * Monitor the baby's health 

The results of a pregnancy ultrasound, non-stress test, and other tests will
help your provider decide whether your baby needs to be delivered right away.

Women who had low blood pressure at the start of their pregnancy, followed by
a significant rise in blood pressure need to be watched closely for other
signs of preeclampsia.

## Treatment

Preeclampsia often resolves after the baby is born and the placenta is
delivered. However, it may persist or even begin after delivery.

Most often, at 37 weeks, your baby is developed enough to be healthy outside
of the womb.

As a result, your provider will likely want your baby to be delivered so the
preeclampsia does not get worse. You may get medicines to help trigger labor,
or you may need a C-section.

If your baby is not fully developed and you have mild preeclampsia, the
disease can often be managed at home until your baby has matured. The provider
will recommend:

      * Frequent doctor visits to make sure you and your baby are doing well.
      * Medicines to lower your blood pressure (sometimes).
      * The severity of preeclampsia may change quickly, so you'll need very careful follow-up.Â 

Complete bed rest is no longer recommended.

Sometimes, a pregnant woman with preeclampsia is admitted to the hospital.
This allows the health care team to watch the baby and mother more closely.

Treatment in the hospital may include:

      * Close monitoring of the mother and baby
      * Medicines to control blood pressure and prevent seizures and other complications
      * Steroid injections for pregnancies under 34 weeks gestation to help speed up the development of the baby's lungs 

You and your provider will continue to discuss the safest time to deliver your
baby, considering:

      * How close you are to your due date.
      * The severity of the preeclampsia. Preeclampsia has many severe complications that can harm the mother.
      * How well the baby is doing in the womb.Â 

The baby must be delivered if there are signs of severe preeclampsia. These
include:

      * Tests that show your baby is not growing well or is not getting enough blood and oxygen.
      * The bottom number of your blood pressure is over 110 mm Hg or is greater than 100 mm Hg consistently over a 24-hour period.
      * Abnormal liver function test results.
      * Severe headaches.
      * Pain in the belly area (abdomen).
      * Seizures or changes in mental function (eclampsia).
      * Fluid buildup in the mother's lungs.Â 
      * HELLP syndrome (rare).
      * Low platelet count or bleeding.
      * Low urine output, a lot of protein in the urine, and other signs that your kidneys are not working properly.Â 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sign and symptoms of preeclampsia most often go away within 6 weeks after
delivery. However, the high blood pressure sometimes gets worse the first few
days after delivery. You are still at risk for preeclampsia for up to 6 weeks
after delivery. This postpartum preeclampsia carries a higher risk of death.
If you notice any symptoms of preeclampsia, contact your health care provider
right away.Â

If you have had preeclampsia, you are more likely to develop it again during
another pregnancy. In most cases, it is not as severe as the first time.

If you have high blood pressure during more thanÂ one pregnancy, you are more
likely to have high blood pressure when you get older.

## Possible Complications

Rare but severe immediate complications for the mother can include:

      * Bleeding problems
      * Seizure (eclampsia)
      * Fetal growth retardation
      * Premature separation of the placenta from the uterus before the baby is born
      * Rupture of the liver
      * Stroke
      * Death (rarely) 

Having a history of preeclampsia makes a woman a higher risk for future
problems such as:

      * Heart disease
      * Diabetes
      * Kidney disease 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of preeclampsia during your pregnancy
or after delivery.

## Prevention

There is no sure way to prevent preeclampsia.

      * If your doctor thinks you are at high risk of developing preeclampsia, they may suggest that you start baby aspirin (81 mg) daily late in the first trimester or early in the second trimester of your pregnancy. However, DO NOT start baby aspirin unless you have consulted with your doctor first.
      * If your doctor thinks your calcium intake is low, they may suggest that you take a calcium supplement daily.
      * There are no other specific preventive measures for preeclampsia. 

It is important for all pregnant women to start prenatal care early and
continue it through the pregnancy and after delivery.

## Alternative Names

Toxemia; Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH); Gestational hypertension; High
blood pressure - preeclampsia

## Images

      * ![Preeclampsia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17270t.jpg)Preeclampsia

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; Task Force on
Hypertension in Pregnancy. Hypertension in pregnancy. Report of the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on Hypertension in
Pregnancy. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(5):1122-31. PMID: 24150027
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24150027.

Markham KB, Funai EF. Pregnancy-related hypertension. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R,
Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 48.

Rosene-Montella K. Common medical problems in pregnancy. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 239.

Sibai BM. Preeclampsia and hypertensive disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 31.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
08/20/2018.

![PresiÃ³n arterial alta en el
embarazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressureinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

