Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000899.htm    
                                Description: Eclampsia is the new onset of seizures or coma in a pregnant woman with preeclampsia. These seizures are not related to an existing brain condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eclampsia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000899.htm

# Eclampsia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eclampsia is the new onset of seizures or coma in a pregnant woman with
preeclampsia. These seizures are not related to an existing brain condition.

## Causes

The exact cause of eclampsia is not known. Factors that may play a role
include:

      * Blood vessel problems
      * Brain and nervous system (neurological) factors
      * Diet
      * Genes 

Eclampsia follows a condition called preeclampsia. This is a complication of
pregnancy in which a woman has high blood pressure and other findings.

Most women with preeclampsia do not go on to have seizures. It is hard to
predict which women will. Women at high risk of seizures often have severe
preeclampsia with findings such as:

      * Abnormal blood tests
      * Headaches
      * Very high blood pressure
      * Vision changes
      * Abdominal pain 

Your chances of getting preeclampsia increase when:

      * You are 35 or older.
      * You are African American.
      * This is your first pregnancy.
      * You have diabetes, high blood pressure, or kidney disease.
      * You are having more than 1 baby (such as twins or triplets).
      * You are a teen. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of eclampsia include:

      * Seizures
      * Severe agitation
      * Unconsciousness 

Most women will have these symptoms of preeclampsia before the seizure:

      * Headaches
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Stomach pain
      * Swelling of the hands and face
      * Vision problems, such as loss of vision, blurred vision, double vision, or missing areas in the visual field 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam to look for causes of
seizures. Your blood pressure and breathing rate will be checked regularly.

Blood and urine tests may be done to check:

      * Blood clotting factors
      * Creatinine
      * Hematocrit
      * Uric acid
      * Liver function
      * Platelet count
      * Protein in the urine 

## Treatment

The main treatment to prevent severe preeclampsia from progressing to
eclampsia is giving birth to the baby. Letting the pregnancy go on can be
dangerous for you and the baby.

You may be given medicine to prevent seizures. These medicines are called
anticonvulsants.

Your provider may give medicine to lower high blood pressure. If your blood
pressure stays high, delivery may be needed, even if it is before the baby is
due.

## Possible Complications

Women with eclampsia or preeclampsia have a higher risk for:

      * Separation of the placenta (placenta abruptio)
      * Premature delivery that leads to complications in the baby
      * Blood clotting problems
      * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if you have any symptoms of
eclampsia or preeclampsia. Emergency symptoms include seizures or decreased
alertness.

Seek medical care right away if you have any of the following:

      * Bright red vaginal bleeding
      * Little or no movement in the baby
      * Severe headache
      * Severe pain in the upper right abdominal area
      * Vision loss
      * Nausea or vomiting 

## Prevention

Getting medical care during your entire pregnancy is important in preventing
complications. This allows problems such as preeclampsia to be detected and
treated early.

Getting treatment for preeclampsia may prevent eclampsia.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - eclampsia; Preeclampsia - eclampsia; High blood pressure -
eclampsia; Seizure - eclampsia; Hypertension - eclampsia

## Images

      * ![Preeclampsia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17270t.jpg)Preeclampsia

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; Task Force on
Hypertension in Pregnancy. Hypertension in pregnancy. Report of the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on Hypertension in
Pregnancy. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(5):1122-1131. PMID: 24150027
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24150027.

Markham KB, Funai EF. Pregnancy-related hypertension. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R,
Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 48.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

Sibai BM. Preeclampsia and hypertensive disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PresiÃ³n arterial alta en el
embarazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressureinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

