Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000606.htm    
                                Description: Pregnant women with preeclampsia have high blood pressure and signs of liver or kidney damage. Kidney damage results in the presence of protein in the urine. Preeclampsia that occurs in women after the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preeclampsia - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000606.htm

# Preeclampsia - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pregnant women with preeclampsia have high blood pressure and signs of liver
or kidney damage. Kidney damage results in the presence of protein in the
urine. Preeclampsia that occurs in women after the 20th week of pregnancy. It
can be mild or severe. Preeclampsia usually resolves after the baby is born
and the placenta is delivered. However, it may persist or even begin after
delivery, most often within 48 hours. This is called postpartum preeclampsia.

## What to Expect

Treatment decisions are made based on the gestational age of the pregnancy and
the severity of the preeclampsia.

If you are past 37 weeks and have been diagnosed with preeclampsia, your
health care provider will likely advise you to deliver early. This may involve
receiving medicines to start (induce) labor or delivering the baby by cesarean
delivery (C-section).

If you are less than 37 weeks pregnant, the goal is to prolong your pregnancy
as long as it is safe. Doing so allows your baby to develop longer inside of
you.

      * How quickly you should be delivered depends on how high your blood pressure is, signs of liver or kidney problems, and the condition of the baby.
      * If your preeclampsia is severe, you may need to stay in the hospital to be monitored closely. If the preeclampsia remains severe, you may need to be delivered.
      * If your preeclampsia is mild, you may be able to stay at home on bed rest. You will need to have frequent checkups and tests. The severity of preeclampsia may change quickly, so you'll need very careful follow-up. 

Complete bed rest is no longer recommended. Your provider will recommend an
activity level for you.

## Self-care at Home

When you are at home, your provider will tell you what changes you may need to
make in your diet.

You may need to take medicines to lower your blood pressure. Take these
medicines the way your provider tells you to.

DO NOT take any extra vitamins, calcium, aspirin, or other medicines without
talking with your provider first.

Often, women who have preeclampsia do not feel sick or have any symptoms.
Still, both you and your baby may be in danger. To protect yourself and your
baby, it's important to go to all of your prenatal visits. If you notice any
symptoms of preeclampsia (listed below), tell your provider right away.

## Risks of Preeclampsia

There are risks to both you and your baby if you develop preeclampsia:

      * The mother can have kidney damage, seizures, stroke, or bleeding in the liver.
      * There is higher risk for the placenta to detach from the uterus (abruption) and for stillbirth.
      * The baby may fail to grow properly (growth restriction). 

## Monitoring You and Your Baby

While you are home, your provider may ask you to:

      * Measure your blood pressure
      * Check your urine for protein
      * Monitor how much fluid you drink
      * Check your weight
      * Monitor how often your baby moves and kicks 

Your provider will teach you how to do these things.

You will need frequent visits with your provider to make sure you and your
baby are doing well. You will likely have:

      * Visits with your provider once a week or more
      * Ultrasounds to monitor the size and movement of your baby and the amount of fluid around your baby
      * A nonstress test to check your baby's condition
      * Blood or urine tests 

Sign and symptoms of preeclampsia most often go away within 6 weeks after
delivery. However, the high blood pressure sometimes gets worse the first few
days after delivery. You are still at risk for preeclampsia up to 6 weeks
after delivery. This postpartum preeclampsia carries a higher risk of death.
It's important to continue monitor yourself during this time. If you notice
any symptoms of preeclampsia, before or after delivery, contact your provider
right away.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if you:

      * Have swelling in your hands, face, or eyes (edema).
      * Suddenly gain weight over 1 or 2 days, or you gain more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram) in a week.
      * Have a headache that does not go away or becomes worse.
      * Are not urinating very often.
      * Have nausea and vomiting.
      * Have vision changes, such as you cannot see for a short time, see flashing lights or spots, are sensitive to light, or have blurry vision.
      * Feel light-headed or faint.
      * Have pain in your belly below your ribs, more often on the right side.
      * Have pain in your right shoulder.
      * Have problems breathing.
      * Bruise easily. 

## Alternative Names

Toxemia - self-care; PIH - self-care; Pregnancy-induced hypertension - self-
care

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; Task Force on
Hypertension in Pregnancy. Hypertension in pregnancy. Report of the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on hypertension in
pregnancy. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(5):1122-1131. PMID: 24150027
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24150027.

Markham KB, Funai EF. Pregnancy-related hypertension. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R,
Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 48.

Sibai BM. Preeclampsia and hypertensive disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

## Review Date 8/16/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

