Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001973.htm    
                                Description: You may have heard that cow    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cow's milk and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001973.htm

# Cow's milk and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may have heard that cow's milk should not be given to babies younger than
1 year old. This is because cow's milk doesn't provide enough of certain
nutrients. Also, it's hard for your baby to digest the protein and fat in
cow's milk. It is safe though, to give cow's milk to children after they're 1
year old.

A child who is 1 or 2 years old should only drink whole milk. This is because
the fat in whole milk is needed for your child's developing brain. After 2
years old, children can drink low-fat milk or even skim milk if they are
overweight.

Some children have problems from drinking cow's milk. For instance, a milk
allergy may cause:

      * Belly pain or cramping
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Diarrhea 

A severe allergy can cause bleeding in the intestines that can lead to anemia.
But only about 1% to 3% of children under 1 year old have a milk allergy. It
is even less common in children who are older than 1 to 3 years.

Lactose intolerance occurs when the small intestine does not make enough of
the enzyme lactase. A child who is lactose intolerant can't digest lactose.
This is a type of sugar found in milk and other dairy products. The condition
can cause bloating and diarrhea.

If your child has one of these problems, your health care provider may
recommend soy milk. But many children who are allergic to milk are also
allergic to soy.

Children usually outgrow allergies or intolerances by the time they are 1 year
old. But having one food allergy increases the risk for having other types of
allergies.

If your child can't have dairy or soy, talk to your provider about other food
options that will help your child get enough protein and calcium.

The US Department of Agriculture recommends the following daily amounts of
dairy for children and teens:

      * Two through 3 years old: 2 cups (480 milliliters)
      * Four through 8 years old: 2Â½ cups (600 milliliters)
      * Nine through 18 years old: 3 cups (720 milliliters) 

One cup (240 milliliters) of dairy equals:

      * One cup (240 milliliters) of milk
      * Eight ounces (240 milliliters) of yogurt
      * Two ounces (56 grams) of processed American cheese
      * One cup (240 milliliters) of pudding made with milk 

## Alternative Names

Milk and children;Â Cow's milk allergy - children; Lactose intolerance -
children

## Images

      * ![Cow's milk and children](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9454t.jpg)Cow's milk and children

## References

Groetch M, Sampson HA. Management of food allergy. In: Leung DYM, Szefler SJ,
Bonilla FA, Akdis CA, Sampson HA, eds. _Pediatric Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 48.

United States Department of Agriculture. ChooseMyPlate.gov website. All about
the dairy group. www.choosemyplate.gov/eathealthy/dairy. Updated July 18,
2019. Accessed September 17, 2019.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildNutrition_thumb.jpg)Child
Nutrition _Read more_

![Toddler
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerNutrition_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Nutrition _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

