Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003253.htm    
                                Description: Pilonidal sinus disease is an inflammatory condition involving the hair follicles that can occur anywhere along the crease between the buttocks, which runs from the bone at the bottom of the spine (sacrum)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pilonidal sinus disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003253.htm

# Pilonidal sinus disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pilonidal sinus disease is an inflammatory condition involving the hair
follicles that can occur anywhere along the crease between the buttocks, which
runs from the bone at the bottom of the spine (sacrum) to the anus. The
disease is benign and has no association with cancer.

Pilonidal dimple may appear as:

      * A pilonidal abscess, in which the hair follicle becomes infected and pus collects in the fat tissue
      * A pilonidal cyst, in which a cyst or hole forms if there has been an abscess for a long time
      * A pilonidal sinus, in which a tract grows under the skin or deeper from the hair follicle
      * A small pit or pore in the skin that contains dark spots or hair 

## Considerations

Symptoms may include:

      * Pus draining to a small pit in the skin
      * Tenderness over the area after you are active or sit for a period of time
      * Warm, tender, swollen area near the tailbone
      * Fever (rare) 

There may be no symptoms other than a small dent (pit) in the skin in the
crease between the buttocks.

## Causes

The cause of pilonidal disease is not clear. It is thought to be caused by
hair growing into the skin in the crease between the buttocks.

This problem is more likely to occur in people who:

      * Are obese
      * Experience trauma or irritation in the area
      * Have excess body hair, particularly coarse, curly hair 

## Home Care

Wash normally and pat dry. Use a soft bristle scrub brush to prevent the hairs
from becoming ingrown. Keep the hairs in this region short (shaving, laser,
depilatory) which may decrease risk of flare-ups and recurrence.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice any of the following around the
pilonidal cyst:

      * Drainage of pus
      * Redness
      * Swelling
      * Tenderness 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

You will be asked for your medical history and given a physical examination.
Sometimes you may be asked for the following information:

      * Has there been any change in the appearance of the pilonidal sinus disease?
      * Has there been any drainage from the area?
      * Do you have any other symptoms? 

Pilonidal disease that causes no symptoms does not need to be treated.

A pilonidal abscess may be opened, drained, and packed with gauze. Antibiotics
may be used if there is an infection spreading in the skin or you also have
another, more severe illness.

Other surgeries that may be needed include:

      * Removal (excision) of the diseased area
      * Skin grafts
      * Flap operation following excision
      * Surgery to remove an abscess that returns

## Alternative Names

Pilonidal abscess; Pilonidal sinus; Pilonidal cyst; Pilonidal disease

## Images

      * ![Anatomical landmarks - back view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1069t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - back view
      * ![Pilonidal dimple](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9746t.jpg)Pilonidal dimple

## References

Johnson EK, Steele SR. The management of pilonidal disease. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:313-322.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Surgical conditions of the
anus and rectum. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 344.

Soler ME. Pilonidal disease. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:995-995.

## Review Date 11/26/2017

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tailbone
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TailboneDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tailbone
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

