Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000573.htm    
                                Description: You were treated for an injured tailbone. The tailbone is also called the coccyx. It is the small bone at the lower tip of the spine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tailbone trauma - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000573.htm

# Tailbone trauma - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were treated for an injured tailbone. The tailbone is also called the
coccyx. It is the small bone at the lower tip of the spine.

At home, be sure to follow your doctor's instructions on how to take care of
your tailbone so that it heals well.

## More About Your Injury

Most tailbone injuries lead to bruising and pain. Only in rare cases is there
a fracture or broken bone.

Tailbone injuries are often caused by backward falls onto a hard surface, such
as a slippery floor or ice.

Symptoms of a tailbone injury include:

      * Pain or tenderness in the lower back
      * Pain on top of the buttocks area
      * Pain or numbness with sitting
      * Bruising and swelling around the base of the spine 

## What to Expect

A tailbone injury can be very painful and slow to heal. Healing time for an
injured tailbone depends on the severity of the injury.

      * If you have a fracture, healing can take between 8 to 12 weeks.
      * If your tailbone injury is a bruise, healing takes about 4 weeks.

In rare cases, symptoms do not improve. Injection of a steroid medicine may be
tried. Surgery to remove part of the tailbone may be discussed at some point,
but not until 6 months or more after the injury.

## Symptom Relief

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to relieve your
symptoms. These steps may be recommended for the first few days or weeks after
your injury:

      * Rest and stop any physical activity that causes pain. The more you rest, the quicker the injury can heal.
      * Ice your tailbone for about 20 minutes every hour while awake for the first 48 hours, then 2 to 3 times a day. DO NOT apply ice directly to the skin.
      * Use a cushion or gel donut when sitting. The hole in the center will take pressure off your tailbone. You can buy the cushion at a drugstore.
      * Avoid sitting a lot. When sleeping, lie on your belly to take pressure off the tailbone.

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, and others) or naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn, and others). You can buy these medicines without a
prescription.

      * DO NOT use these medicines for the first 24 hours after your injury. They may increase the risk of bleeding.
      * Talk with your provider before using these drugs if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or more than your provider advises you to take. 

It may be painful to go to the bathroom. Eat plenty of fiber and drink plenty
of fluids to avoid constipation. Use stool softener medicine if needed. You
can buy stool softeners at the drugstore.

## Activity

As your pain goes away, you can begin light physical activity. Slowly increase
your activities, such as walking and sitting. You should:

      * Continue to avoid sitting for long periods.
      * Not sit on a hard surface.
      * Keep using the cushion or gel donut when sitting.
      * When sitting, alternate between each of your buttocks.
      * Ice after activity if there is any discomfort.

## Follow-up

Your provider may not need to follow-up if the injury is healing as expected.
If the injury is more severe, you will likely need to see the provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if you have any of the following:

      * Sudden numbness, tingling or weakness in one or both legs
      * Sudden increase in pain or swelling
      * Injury does not seem to be healing as expected
      * Prolonged constipation
      * Problems controlling your bowel or bladder 

## Alternative Names

Coccyx injury; Coccyx fracture; Coccydynia - aftercare

## References

Bond MC, Abraham MK. Pelvic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 48.

Buttaravoli P, Leffler SM. Coccyx fracture: (tailbone fracture). In:
Buttaravoli P, Leffler SM, eds. _Minor Emergencies_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 106.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Tailbone Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

