Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000008.htm    
                                Description: Tailbone trauma is an injury to the small bone at the lower tip of the spine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tailbone trauma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000008.htm

# Tailbone trauma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tailbone trauma is an injury to the small bone at the lower tip of the spine.

## Considerations

Actual fractures of the tailbone (coccyx) are not common. Tailbone trauma
usually involves bruising of the bone or pulling of the ligaments.

## Causes

Backward falls onto a hard surface, such as a slippery floor or ice, are the
most common cause of this injury.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Bruising on the lower part of the spine
      * Pain when sitting or putting pressure on the tailbone

## First Aid

For tailbone trauma when no spinal cord injury is suspected:

      * Relieve pressure on the tailbone by sitting on an inflatable rubber ring or cushions.
      * Take acetaminophen for pain.
      * Take a stool softener to avoid constipation.

If you suspect injury to the neck or spine, DO NOT attempt to move the person.

## DO NOT

DO NOT attempt to move the person if you think there may be injury to the
spinal cord.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for immediate medical help if:

      * Spinal cord injury is suspected
      * The person can't move
      * Pain is severe

## Prevention

Keys to preventing tailbone trauma include:

      * DO NOT run on slippery surfaces, such as around a swimming pool.
      * Dress in shoes with good tread or slip-resistant soles, especially in snow or on ice.

## Alternative Names

Coccyx injury

## Images

      * ![Tailbone \(coccyx\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9757t.jpg)Tailbone (coccyx)

## References

Bond MC, Abraham MK. Pelvic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 48.

Vora A, Yin AX. Coccydynia. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 98.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tailbone
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TailboneDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tailbone
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

