Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000426.htm    
                                Description: You need tears to moisten the eyes and to wash away particles that have gotten into your eyes. A healthy tear film on the eye is necessary for good vision.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dry eye syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000426.htm

# Dry eye syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You need tears to moisten the eyes and to wash away particles that have gotten
into your eyes. A healthy tear film on the eye is necessary for good vision.

Dry eyes develop when the eye is unable to maintain a healthy coating of
tears.

## Causes

Dry eye commonly occurs in people who are otherwise healthy. It becomes more
common with age. This can occur due to hormonal changes that make your eyes
produce fewer tears.

Other common causes of dry eyes include:

      * Dry environment or workplace (wind, air conditioning)
      * Sun exposure
      * Smoking or second-hand smoke exposure
      * Cold or allergy medicines
      * Wearing contact lenses 

Dry eye can also be caused by:

      * Heat or chemical burns
      * Previous eye surgery
      * Use of eye drops for other eye diseases
      * A rare autoimmune disorder in which the glands that produce tears are destroyed (SjÃ¶gren syndrome) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Blurred vision
      * Burning, itching, or redness in the eye
      * Gritty or scratchy feeling in the eye
      * Sensitivity to light

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

      * Visual acuity measurement
      * Slit lamp exam
      * Diagnostic staining of the cornea and tear film
      * Measurement of tear film break-up time (TBUT)
      * Measurement of rate of tear production (Schirmer test)
      * Measurement of concentration of tears (osmolality)

## Treatment

The first step in treatment is artificial tears. These come as preserved
(screw cap bottle) and unpreserved (twist open vial). Preserved tears are more
convenient, but some people are sensitive to preservatives. There are many
brands available without a prescription.

Start using the drops at least 2 to 4 times per day. If your symptoms are not
better after a couple of weeks of regular use:

      * Increase use (up to every 2 hours).
      * Change to unpreserved drops if you have been using the preserved type.
      * Try a different brand.
      * Talk to your health care provider if you cannot find a brand that works for you. 

Other treatments may include:

      * Fish oil 2 to 3 times per day
      * Glasses, goggles or contact lenses that keep moisture in the eyes
      * Medicines such as Restasis, Xiidra, topical corticosteroids, and oral tetracycline and doxycycline
      * Tiny plugs placed in the tear drainage ducts to help moisture stay on the surface of the eye longer 

Other helpful steps include:

      * DO NOT smoke and avoid second-hand smoke, direct wind, and air conditioning.
      * Use a humidifier, particularly in the winter.
      * Limit allergy and cold medicines that may dry you out and worsen your symptoms.
      * Purposefully blink more often. Rest your eyes once in a while.
      * Clean eyelashes regularly and apply warm compresses.

Some dry eye symptoms are due to sleeping with the eyes slightly open.
Lubricating ointments work best for this problem. You should use them only in
small amounts since they can blur your vision. It is best to use them before
sleep.

Surgery may be helpful if symptoms are because the eyelids are in an abnormal
position.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with dry eye have only discomfort, and no vision loss.

## Possible Complications

In severe cases, the clear covering on the eye (cornea) may become damaged or
infected.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if:

      * You have red or painful eyes.
      * You have flaking, discharge, or a sore on your eye or eyelid.
      * You have had an injury to your eye, or if you have a bulging eye or a drooping eyelid.
      * You have joint pain, swelling, or stiffness and a dry mouth along with dry eye symptoms.
      * Your eyes do not get better with self-care within a few days.

## Prevention

Stay away from dry environments and things that irritate your eyes to help
prevent symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Keratitis sicca; Xerophthalmia; Keratoconjunctivitis sicca

## Images

      * ![Eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9553t.jpg)Eye anatomy
      * ![Lacrimal gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19671t.jpg)Lacrimal gland

## References

Bohm KJ, Djalilian AR, Pflugfelder SC, Starr CE. Dry eye. In: Mannis MJ,
Holland EJ, eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

Dorsch JN. Dry eye syndrome. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:475-477.

Goldstein MH, Rao NK. Dry eye disease. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.23.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tears](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tears_thumb.jpg)Tears _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

