Link: https://medlineplus.gov/howmuchexercisedoineed.html    
                                Description: You know that exercise is good for your health, but how much do you need? Learn what&#39;s recommended, along with which types of exercise you need.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

How Much Exercise Do I Need?

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/howmuchexercisedoineed.html

#  How Much Exercise Do I Need?

## Summary

Regular exercise is one of the best things you can do for your health. It has
many benefits. It can improve your overall health and fitness and reduce your
risk for many chronic diseases.To get the most benefit, here's how much
physical activity you should get:

### For adults:

**Get at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity or 75 minutes of vigorous-
intensity aerobic physical activity each week. Or you could do a combination
of the two.**

    * Try to spread your physical activity out over several days of the week. That's better than trying to do it all in one or two days.
    * Some days you may not have long blocks of time to do physical activity. You can try splitting it up into segments of ten minutes or more.
    * Aerobic activities include walking fast, jogging, swimming, and biking
    * Moderate intensity means that while you are doing that activity, you should be able to say a few words in a row but not sing
    * Vigorous intensity means that while you are doing that activity, you won't be able to say more than a few words without stopping for a breath

**Also, do strengthening activities twice per week.**

    * Strengthening activities include lifting weights, working with exercise bands, and doing sit-ups and pushups
    * Choose activities that work all the different parts of the body - your legs, hips, back, chest, stomach, shoulders, and arms. You should repeat exercises for each muscle group 8 to 12 times per session.

### For preschool-aged children (ages 3-5):

**Preschool children should be physically active throughout the day, to help
with their growth and development.**

They should get both structured and unstructured active play. Structured play
has a goal and is directed by an adult. Examples include playing a sport or a
game. Unstructured play is creative free play, such as playing on a
playground.

### For children and teens:

**Get 60 minutes or more of physical activity every day. Most of it should be
moderate-intensity aerobic activity.**

    * Activities should vary and be a good fit for the child's age and physical development
    * Moderate-intensity aerobic activities include walking, running, skipping, playing on the playground, playing basketball, and biking

**Also, try to get each of these at least 3 days a week: vigorous-intensity
aerobic activity, muscle-strengthening activity, and bone-strengthening
activity.**

    * Vigorous-intensity aerobic activities include running, doing jumping jacks, and fast swimming
    * Muscle-strengthening activities include playing on playground equipment, playing tug-of-war, and doing pushups and pull-ups
    * Bone-strengthening activities include hopping, skipping, doing jumping jacks, playing volleyball, and working with resistance bands

### For older adults, pregnant women, and people with chronic health problems:

Older adults, pregnant women, and people who have special health needs should
check with their health care provider on how much physical activity they
should get and what types of activities they should do.

### Exercise tips:

People who are trying to lose weight may need to get more physical activity.
They also need to adjust their diet, so they are burning more calories than
they eat and drink.

If you have been inactive, you may need to start slowly. You can keep adding
more gradually. The more you can do, the better. But try not to feel
overwhelmed, and do what you can. Getting some physical activity is always
better than getting none.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Learn More

    * Exercise Activity Calculator (American Cancer Society)
    * How Much Physical Activity Do Adults Need? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Measuring Physical Activity Intensity ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Move Your Way: A Campaign to Promote the Updated Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans (2nd edition) (Department of Health and Human Services)
    * Physical Activity (Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion)
    * Physical Activity (Exercise) (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans: 2nd edition (Department of Health and Human Services) \- PDF
    * Tips for Starting Physical Activity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

    * Are you getting too much exercise? (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![How Much Exercise Do I
Need](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HowMuchExerciseDoINeed.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Are you getting too much exercise?
    * Exercise, lifestyle, and your bones

## Related Health Topics

    * Exercise for Children
    * Exercise for Older Adults
    * Sports Fitness

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Get Moving: Key Takeaways from the New Physical Activity Guidelines

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 10 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 30 August 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

