Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003036.htm    
                                Description: Watery eyes means you have too many tears draining from the eyes. Tears help keep the surface of the eye moist. They wash away particles and foreign objects in the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Watery eyes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003036.htm

# Watery eyes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Watery eyes means you have too many tears draining from the eyes. Tears help
keep the surface of the eye moist. They wash away particles and foreign
objects in the eye.

## Causes

Your eyes are always making tears. These tears leave the eye through a small
hole in the corner of the eye called the tear duct.

Causes of watery eyes include:

      * Allergy to mold, dander, dust
      * Blepharitis (swelling along the edge of the eyelid)
      * Blockage of the tear duct
      * Conjunctivitis
      * Smog or chemicals in the air or wind
      * Bright light
      * Eyelid turning inward or outward
      * Something in the eye (such as dust or sand)
      * Scrape on the eye
      * Infection
      * Inward-growing eyelashes
      * Irritation 

Increased tearing sometimes happens with:

      * Eyestrain
      * Laughing
      * Vomiting
      * Yawning

One of the most common causes of excess tearing is dry eyes. Drying causes the
eyes to become uncomfortable, which stimulates the body to produce too many
tears. One of the main tests for tearing is to check whether the eyes are too
dry.

## Home Care

Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. Therefore, it is important to
determine the cause before treating yourself at home.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tearing is rarely an emergency. You should seek help right away if:

      * Chemicals get into the eye
      * You have severe pain, bleeding, or loss of vision
      * You have a severe injury to the eye 

Also, contact your health care provider if you have:

      * A scratch on the eye
      * Something in the eye
      * Painful, red eyes
      * A lot of discharge coming from the eye
      * Long-term, unexplained tearing
      * Tenderness around the nose or sinuses 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine your eyes and ask questions about your medical
history and symptoms. Questions may include:

      * When did the tearing start?
      * How often does it happen?
      * Does it affect both eyes?
      * Do you have vision problems?
      * Do you wear contacts or glasses?
      * Does the tearing happen after an emotional or stressful event?
      * Do you have eye pain or other symptoms, including headache, stuffy or runny nose, or joint or muscle aches?
      * What medicines do you take?
      * Do you have allergies?
      * Did you recently hurt your eye?
      * What seems to help stop the tearing? 

Your provider may order tests to help determine the cause.

Treatment depends on the cause of the problem.

## Alternative Names

Epiphora; Tearing - increased

## Images

      * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Hurwitz JJ. The lacrimal drainage system. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.15.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP, eds.
Disorders of the lacrimal system. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 625.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Vision problems and other common eye problems. In:
Seller RH, Symons AB, eds. _Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 34.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tears](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tears_thumb.jpg)Tears _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

