Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001016.htm    
                                Description: A blocked tear duct is a partial or complete blockage in the pathway that carries tears from the surface of the eye into the nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blocked tear duct

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001016.htm

# Blocked tear duct

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A blocked tear duct is a partial or complete blockage in the pathway that
carries tears from the surface of the eye into the nose.

## Causes

Tears are constantly being made to help protect the surface of your eye. They
drain into a very small opening (punctum) in the corner of your eye, near your
nose. This opening is the entrance to the nasolacrimal duct. If this duct is
blocked, the tears will build up and overflow onto the cheek. This occurs even
when you are not crying.

In children, the duct may not be completely developed at birth. It may be
closed or covered by a thin film, which causes a partial blockage.

In adults, the duct can be damaged by an infection, injury, or a tumor.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is increased tearing (epiphora), which causes tears to
overflow onto the face or cheek. In babies, this tearing becomes noticeable
during the first 2Â to 3 weeks after birth.

Sometimes, the tears may appear to be thicker. The tears may dry and become
crusty.

If there is pus in the eyes or the eyelids get stuck together, your baby may
have an eye infection called conjunctivitis.

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, the health care provider will not need to do any tests.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Eye exam
      * Special eye stain (fluorescein) to see how tears drain
      * X-ray studies to examine the tear duct (rarely done)

## Treatment

Carefully clean the eyelids using a warm, wet washcloth if tears build up and
leave crusts.

For infants, you may try gently massaging the area 2Â to 3 times a day. Using
a clean finger, rub the area from the inside corner of the eye toward the
nose. This may help to open the tear duct.

Most of the time, the tear duct will open on its own by the time the infant is
one year old. If this does not happen, probing may be necessary. This
procedure is most often done using general anesthesia, so the child will be
asleep and pain-free. It is almost always successful.

In adults, the cause of the blockage must be treated. This may re-open the
duct if there is not too much damage. Surgery using tiny tubes or stents to
open the passageway may be needed to restore normal tear drainage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For infants, a blocked tear duct will most often go away on its own before the
child is 1 year old. If not, the outcome is still likely to be good with
probing.

In adults, the outlook for a blocked tear duct varies, depending on the cause
and how long the blockage has been present.

## Possible Complications

Tear duct blockage may lead to an infection (dacryocystitis) in part of the
nasolacrimal duct called the lacrimal sac. Most often, there is a bump on the
side of the nose right next to the corner of the eye. Treatment for this often
requires oral antibiotics. Sometimes, the sac needs to be surgically drained.

Tear duct blockage can also increase the chance of other infections, such as
conjunctivitis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you have tear overflow onto the cheek. Earlier treatment
is more successful. In the case of a tumor, early treatment may be life-
saving.

## Prevention

Many cases cannot be prevented. Proper treatment of nasal infections and
conjunctivitis may reduce the risk of having a blocked tear duct. Using
protective eyewear may help prevent a blockage caused by injury.

## Alternative Names

Dacryostenosis; Blocked nasolacrimal duct; Nasolacrimal duct obstruction
(NLDO)

## Images

      * ![Blocked tear duct](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23190t.jpg)Blocked tear duct

## References

Bowling B, Lacrimal drainage system. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical
Ophthalmology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Dolman PJ, Hurwitz JJ. Disorders of the lacrimal system. In: Fay A, Dolman PJ,
eds. _Diseases and Disorders of the Orbit and Ocular Adnexa_. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
the lacrimal system.In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 625.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tears](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tears_thumb.jpg)Tears _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

