Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000997.htm    
                                Description: Down syndrome is a genetic condition in which a person has 47 chromosomes instead of the usual 46.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Down syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000997.htm

# Down syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Down syndrome is a genetic condition in which a person has 47 chromosomes
instead of the usual 46.

## Causes

In most cases, Down syndrome occurs when there is an extra copy of chromosome
21. This form of Down syndrome is called trisomy 21. The extra chromosome
causes problems with the way the body and brain develop.

Down syndrome is one of the most common causes of birth defects.

## Symptoms

Down syndrome symptoms vary from person to person and can range from mild to
severe. No matter how severe the condition is, people with Down syndrome have
a widely-recognized appearance.

The head may be smaller than normal and abnormally shaped. For example, the
head may be round with a flat area on the back. The inner corner of the eyes
may be rounded instead of pointed.

Common physical signs include:

      * Decreased muscle tone at birth 
      * Excess skin at the nape of the neck 
      * Flattened nose 
      * Separated joints between the bones of the skull (sutures) 
      * Single crease in the palm of the hand 
      * Small ears 
      * Small mouth 
      * Upward slanting eyes 
      * Wide, short hands with short fingers 
      * White spots on the colored part of the eye (Brushfield spots) 

Physical development is often slower than normal. Most children with Down
syndrome never reach average adult height.

Children may also have delayed mental and social development. Common problems
may include:

      * Impulsive behavior 
      * Poor judgment 
      * Short attention span 
      * Slow learning 

As children with Down syndrome grow and become aware of their limitations,
they may also feel frustration and anger.

Many different medical conditions are seen in people with Down syndrome,
including:

      * Birth defects involving the heart, such as an atrial septal defect or ventricular septal defect
      * Dementia may be seen
      * Eye problems, such as cataracts (most children with Down syndrome need glasses)
      * Early and massive vomiting, which may be a sign of a gastrointestinal blockage, such as esophageal atresia and duodenal atresia
      * Hearing problems, probably caused by repeated ear infections 
      * Hip problems and risk of dislocation
      * Long-term (chronic) constipation problems
      * Sleep apnea (because the mouth, throat, and airway are narrowed in children with Down syndrome)
      * Teeth that appear later than normal and in a location that may cause problems with chewing
      * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)

## Exams and Tests

A doctor can often make a diagnosis of Down syndrome at birth based on how the
baby looks. The doctor may hear a heart murmur when listening to the baby's
chest with a stethoscope.

A blood test can be done to check for the extra chromosome and confirm the
diagnosis.

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Echocardiogram and ECG to check for heart defects (usually done soon after birth)
      * X-rays of the chest and gastrointestinal tract

People with Down syndrome need to be closely screened for certain medical
conditions. They should have:

      * An eye exam every year during infancy 
      * Hearing tests every 6 to 12 months, depending on age 
      * Dental exams every 6 months 
      * X-rays of the upper or cervical spine between ages 3 and 5 years 
      * Pap smears and pelvic exams beginning during puberty or by age 21
      * Thyroid testing every 12 months 

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for Down syndrome. If treatment is needed, it
is usually for associated health problems. For example, a child born with a
gastrointestinal blockage may need major surgery right after birth. Certain
heart defects may also require surgery.

When breast-feeding, the baby should be well supported and fully awake. The
baby may have some leakage because of poor tongue control. But many infants
with Down syndrome can successfully breastfeed.

Obesity can become a problem for older children and adults. Getting plenty of
activity and avoiding high-calorie foods are important. Before beginning
sports activities, the child's neck and hips should be examined.

Behavioral training can help people with Down syndrome and their families deal
with the frustration, anger, and compulsive behavior that often occur. Parents
and caregivers should learn to help a person with Down syndrome deal with
frustration. At the same time, it is important to encourage independence.

Teen girls and women with Down syndrome are usually able to get pregnant.
There is an increased risk for sexual abuse and other types of abuse in both
males and females. It is important for those with Down syndrome to:

      * Be taught about pregnancy and taking the proper precautions 
      * Learn to advocate for themselves in difficult situations 
      * Be in a safe environment 

If the person has any heart defects or other heart problems, antibiotics may
need to be prescribed to prevent a heart infection called endocarditis.

Special education and training is offered in most communities for children
with delays in mental development. Speech therapy may help improve language
skills. Physical therapy may teach movement skills. Occupational therapy may
help with feeding and performing tasks. Mental health care can help both
parents and the child manage mood or behavior problems. Special educators are
also often needed.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on Down syndrome:

      * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/downsyndrome.html
      * National Down Syndrome Society -- www.ndss.org
      * National Down Syndrome Congress -- www.ndsccenter.org
      * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/down-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Although many children with Down syndrome have physical and mental
limitations, they can live independent and productive lives well into
adulthood.

About one half of children with Down syndrome are born with heart problems,
including atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect, and endocardial
cushion defects. Severe heart problems may lead to early death.

People with Down syndrome have an increased risk for certain types of
leukemia, which can also cause early death.

The level of intellectual disability varies,Â but is usually moderate. Adults
with Down syndrome have an increased risk for dementia.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A health care provider should be consulted to determine if the child needs
special education and training. It is important for the child to have regular
checkups with a doctor.

## Prevention

Experts recommend genetic counseling for people with a family history of Down
syndrome who wish to have a baby.

A woman's risk of having a child with Down syndrome increases as she gets
older. The risk is significantly higher among women age 35 and older.

Couples who already have a baby with Down syndrome have an increased risk of
having another baby with the condition.

Tests such as nuchal translucency ultrasound, amniocentesis, or chorionic
villus sampling can be done on a fetus during the first few months of
pregnancy to check for Down syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Trisomy 21

## References

Bacino CA, Lee B. Cytogenetics. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 98.

Driscoll DA, Simpson JL, Holzgreve W, Otano L. Genetic screening and prenatal
genetic diagnosis. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds.
_Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. The chromosomal and genomic basis of
disease: disorders of the autosomes and sex chromosomes. In: Nussbaum RL,
McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson and Thompson Genetics in Medicine_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Down Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DownSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Down
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

