Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000195.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to replace your elbow joint with artificial joint parts (prosthetics).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Elbow replacement - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000195.htm

# Elbow replacement - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to replace your elbow joint with artificial joint parts
(prosthetics).

The surgeon made a cut (incision) in the back of your upper or lower arm and
removed damaged tissue and parts of the bones. The surgeon then put the
artificial joint in place and closed the skin with sutures (stitches).

Now that you're going home, be sure to follow your surgeon's instructions on
how to take care of your new elbow. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

While in the hospital, you should have received pain medicine. You also
learned how to manage swelling around your new joint.

Your surgeon or physical therapist may have taught you exercises to do at
home.

## What to Expect at Home

Your elbow area may feel warm and tender for 2 to 4 weeks after surgery. The
swelling should go down during this time.

For the first week after surgery, you may have a soft splint on your arm to
hold your elbow in place. After the incision has healed, you may need to use a
harder splint or brace that has a hinge.

Arrange for someone to help with chores such as shopping, bathing, making
meals, and housework for up to 6 weeks. You may want to make some changes
around your home so it is easier for you to take care of yourself.

You will need to wait 4 to 6 weeks before you can drive. Your surgeon or
physical therapist will tell you when it is OK.

You may be able to start using your elbow as soon as 12 weeks after surgery.
Full recovery can take up to a year.

## Activity

How much you can use your arm and when you can start using it will depend on
the condition of your new elbow. Be sure to ask the surgeon what limits you
may have.

The surgeon will have you go to physical therapy to help you gain strength and
use of your arm:

      * If you have a splint, you may need to wait a few weeks to start therapy.
      * Before starting physical therapy, ask your surgeon if you should begin to increase movement in your elbow by gently bending it back and forth. If you have pain or problems with your incision when you do this, you may be bending the elbow too much and need to stop.
      * Reduce soreness after physical therapy by putting ice on the joint for 15 minutes. Wrap the ice in cloth. DO NOT put ice directly on the skin because this can cause frostbite. 

After the first week, you may be able to use your splint only while sleeping.
Ask your surgeon if this is OK. You will need to avoid carrying anything or
pulling items even when your splint is off.

By 6 weeks, you should be able to slowly increase daily activities to help
make your elbow and arm stronger.

      * Ask your surgeon or physical therapist how much weight you can lift.
      * You may also need to do range-of-motion exercises for your shoulder and spine. 

By 12 weeks, you should be able to lift more weight. Ask your surgeon or
physical therapist what other activities you can do at this point. Your new
elbow will likely have some limitations.

Make sure you know the proper way to use your elbow before you start any
activity or move your arm for any reason. Ask your surgeon or physical
therapist if you can:

      * Lift things heavier than 5 to 15 pounds (2.5 to 6.8 kg) for the rest of your life.
      * Play golf or tennis, or throw objects (such as a ball) for the rest of your life.
      * Do any activities that make you lift your elbow over and over, such as shoveling or shooting a basketball.
      * Do jamming or pounding activities, such as hammering.
      * Do impact sports, such as boxing or football.
      * Do physical activities that need quick stop and start motions or twisting with your elbow.
      * Push or pull heavy objects. 

## Wound Care

The stitches on your wound will be removed about 1 week after surgery. Keep
the dressing (bandage) over your wound clean and dry. You may change the
dressing every day if you like.

      * DO NOT shower until after your follow-up appointment with your surgeon. Your surgeon will tell you when you can begin taking showers. When you do start showering again, let the water run over the incision, but do not let the water beat down on it. DO NOT scrub.
      * DO NOT soak the wound in a bathtub, hot tub, or swimming pool for at least the first 3 weeks.

## Pain

Pain is normal after elbow replacement surgery. It should get better over
time.

Your surgeon will give you a prescription for pain medicine. After surgery,
get it filled when you go home so that you have it when you need it. Take the
pain medicine when you start having pain. Waiting too long to take it allows
the pain to get worse than it should.

Ibuprofen or another anti-inflammatory medicine may also help. Ask your doctor
what other medicines are safe to take with your pain medicine. Follow
instructions exactly on how to take your medicines.

Narcotic pain medicine (codeine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone) can make you
constipated. If you are taking them, drink plenty of fluids, and eat fruits
and vegetables and other high-fiber foods to help keep your stools loose.

DO NOT drink alcohol or drive if you are taking narcotic pain medicine. This
medicine may make you too sleepy to drive safely.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

      * Blood is soaking through your dressing and the bleeding does not stop when you put pressure on the area
      * Pain does not go away after you take pain medicine
      * You have swelling or pain in your arm
      * Numbness or tingling in your fingers or hand
      * Your hand or fingers look darker than normal or are cool to the touch
      * You have redness, pain, swelling, or yellowish discharge from your incision
      * You have a temperature higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
      * Your new elbow joint feels loose, like it is moving around or shifting 

## Alternative Names

Total elbow arthroplasty - discharge; Endoprosthetic elbow replacement -
discharge

## Images

      * ![Elbow prosthesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21737t.jpg)Elbow prosthesis

## References

Koehler SM, Ruch DS. Total elbow arthroplasty. In: Lee DH, Neviaser RJ, eds.
_Operative Techniques: Shoulder and Elbow Surgery_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

Ozgur SE, Giangarra CE. The total elbow. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds.
_Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Read More

      * Elbow replacement
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Rheumatoid arthritis

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Elbow Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

