Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000983.htm    
                                Description: Nursemaid    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nursemaid's elbow

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000983.htm

# Nursemaid's elbow

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nursemaid's elbow is a dislocation of a bone in the elbow called the radius.
Dislocation means the bone slips out of its normal position.

The injury is also called radial head dislocation.

## Causes

Nursemaid's elbow is a common condition in young children, especially under
age 5. The injury occurs when a child is pulled up too hard by their hand or
wrist. It is often seen after someone lifts a child up by one arm. This might
occur, for example when trying to lift the child over a curb or high step.

Other ways this injury may happen include:

      * Stopping a fall with the arm
      * Rolling over in an unusual way
      * Swinging a young child from their arms while playing 

Once the elbow dislocates, it is likely to do so again, especially in the 3 or
4 weeks after the injury.

Nursemaid's elbow does not usually occur after age 5. By this time, a child's
joints and the structures around it are stronger. Also, the child is less
likely to be in a situation where this injury might occur. In some cases, the
injury can happen in older children or adults, usually with a fracture of the
forearm.

## Symptoms

When the injury occurs:

      * The child usually begins crying right away and refuses to use the arm because of elbow pain.
      * The child may hold the arm slightly bent (flexed) at the elbow and pressed up against their belly (abdominal) area.
      * The child will move the shoulder, but not the elbow. Some children stop crying as the first pain goes away, but continue to refuse to move their elbow. 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the child.

The child will be unable to rotate the arm at the elbow. The palmÂ will beÂ
up,Â and the child will have trouble bending (flexing) the elbow all the way.

## Treatment

Sometimes the elbow will slip back into place on its own. Even then, it is
best for the child to see a provider.

DO NOT try to straighten the arm or change its position. Apply an ice pack to
the elbow. Keep the areas above and below the injured elbow (including the
shoulder and wrist) from moving, if possible.

Take the child to your provider's office or an emergency room.

Your provider will fix the dislocation by gently flexing the elbow and
rotating the forearm so that the palm faces upward. DO NOT try to do this
yourself because you may harm the child.

When nursemaid's elbow returns several times, your provider may teach you how
to correct the problem yourself.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If nursemaid's elbow is not treated, the child may be permanently unable to
fully move the elbow. With treatment, there is usually no permanent damage.

## Possible Complications

In some cases, children may have problems that limit movement of the arm.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you suspect your child has a dislocated elbow or refuses
to use an arm.

## Prevention

DO NOT lift a child by a single arm, such as from their wrist or hand. Lift
from under the arms, from the upper arm, or from both arms.

DO NOT swing children by their hands or forearms. To swing a young child in
circles, provide support under their arms and hold their upper body next to
yours.

## Alternative Names

Radial head dislocation; Pulled elbow; Dislocated elbow - children; Elbow -
nursemaid's; Elbow - pulled; Elbow subluxation; Dislocation - elbow - partial;
Dislocation - radial head; Elbow pain - nursemaid's elbow

## Images

      * ![Radial head injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17259t.jpg)Radial head injury

## References

Carrigan RB. The upper limb. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 681.

Deeney VF, Arnold J. Orthopedics. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ,
eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dislocations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dislocations_thumb.jpg)Dislocations
_Read more_

![Elbow Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ElbowInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Elbow
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

