Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003172.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10;&#10;&#10;This article describes aching or other discomfort in the elbow that is not related to direct injury.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Elbow pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003172.htm

# Elbow pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes aching or other discomfort in the elbow that is not
related to direct injury.

## Causes

Elbow pain can be caused by many problems. A common cause in adults is
tendinitis. This is inflammation and injury to the tendons, which are soft
tissues that attach muscle to bone.

People who play racquet sports are most likely to injure the tendons on the
outside of the elbow. This condition is commonly called tennis elbow. Golfers
are more likely to injure the tendons on the inside of the elbow.

Other common causes of elbow tendinitis are gardening, playing baseball, using
a screwdriver, or overusing your wrist and arm.

Young children commonly develop "nursemaid elbow," which often occurs when
someone is pulling on their straightened arm. The bones are stretched apart
momentarily and a ligament slips in between. It becomes trapped when the bones
try to snap back into place. As a result, the child will usually quietly
refuse to use the arm, but often cries out when they try to bend or straighten
the elbow. This condition is also called an elbow subluxation (a partial
dislocation). This often gets better on its own when the ligament slips back
into place. Surgery is usually not needed.

Other common causes of elbow pain are:

      * Bursitis \-- inflammation of a fluid-filled cushion beneath the skin
      * Arthritis \-- narrowing of the joint space and loss of cartilage in the elbow
      * Elbow strains
      * Infection of the elbow
      * Tendon tears -- biceps rupture 

## Home Care

Gently try to move the elbow and increase your range of motion. If this hurts
or you cannot move the elbow, call your health care provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have a prolonged case of tendinitis that doesn't improve with home care.
      * The pain is due to a direct elbow injury.
      * There is obvious deformity.
      * You can't use the elbow.
      * You have fever or swelling and redness of your elbow.
      * Your elbow is locked and can't straighten or bend.
      * A child has elbow pain.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and carefully check your elbow. You will be
asked about your medical history and symptoms such as:

      * Are both elbows affected?
      * Does the pain shift from the elbow to other joints?
      * Is the pain over the outside bony prominence of the elbow?
      * Did the pain begin suddenly and severely?
      * Did the pain begin slowly and mildly and then get worse?
      * Is the pain getting better on its own?
      * Did the pain begin after an injury?
      * What makes the pain better or worse?
      * Is there pain that goes from the elbow down to the hand?

Treatment depends on the cause, but may involve:

      * Antibiotics
      * Corticosteroid shots
      * Manipulation
      * Pain medicine
      * Physical therapy
      * Surgery (last resort)

## Alternative Names

Pain - elbow

## References

Chauhan A, Cunningham J, Bhatnagar R, Baratz C, Baratz ME. Elbow diagnosis and
decision making. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 62.

Kane SF, Lynch JH, Taylor JC. Evaluation of elbow pain in adults. _Am Fam
Physician_. 2014;89(8):649-657. PMID: 24784124
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24784124.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Elbow Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ElbowInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Elbow
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

