Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000657.htm    
                                Description: You have had surgery for tennis elbow. The surgeon made a cut (incision) over the injured tendon, then scraped away (excised) the unhealthy part of your tendon and repaired it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tennis elbow surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000657.htm

# Tennis elbow surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have had surgery for tennis elbow. The surgeon made a cut (incision) over
the injured tendon, then scraped away (excised) the unhealthy part of your
tendon and repaired it.

At home, be sure to follow your surgeon's instructions on how to take care of
your elbow. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect

Soon after surgery, severe pain will decrease, but you may have mild soreness
for 3 to 6 months.

## Symptom Relief

Place an ice pack on the dressing (bandage) over your wound (incision) 4 to 6
times a day for about 20 minutes each time. Ice helps keep swelling down. Wrap
the ice pack in a clean towel or cloth. DO NOT place it directly on the
dressing. Doing so, may cause frostbite.

Taking ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or other similar medicines may help. Ask your
surgeon about using them.

Your surgeon may give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled on
your way home so you have it when you need it. Take the pain medicine when you
start having pain. Waiting too long to take it allows the pain to get worse
than it should.

## Wound Care

The first week after surgery you may have a thick bandage or a splint. You
should begin moving your arm gently, as recommended by your surgeon.

After the first week, your bandage, splint, and stitches will be removed.

Keep your bandage and your wound clean and dry. Your surgeon will tell you
when it is OK to change your dressing. Also change your dressing if it gets
dirty or wet.

You will likely see your surgeon in about 1 week.

## Activity and Exercise

You should start stretching exercises after the splint is removed to increase
flexibility and range of motion. The surgeon may also refer you to see a
physical therapist to work on stretching and strengthening your forearm
muscles. This can begin after 3 to 4 weeks. Keep doing the exercises for as
long as you are told. This helps ensure tennis elbow will not return.

You may be prescribed a wrist brace. If so, wear it to avoid extending your
wrist and pulling on the repaired elbow tendon.

Most people can return to normal activity and sports after 4 to 6 months.
Check with your surgeon on the timeline for you.

## When to Call the Doctor

After the operation, call the surgeon if you notice any of the following
around your elbow:

      * Swelling
      * Severe or increased pain
      * Changes in skin color around or below your elbow
      * Numbness or tingling in your fingers or hand
      * Your hand or fingers look darker than normal or are cool to the touch
      * Other worrying symptoms, such as increase in pain, redness, or drainage

## Alternative Names

Lateral epicondylitis surgery - discharge; Lateral tendinosis surgery -
discharge; Lateral tennis elbow surgery - discharge

## References

Adams JE, Steinmann SP. Elbow tendinopathies and tendon ruptures. In: Wolfe
SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative
Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Cohen MS. Lateral epicondylitis: arthroscopic and open treatment. In: Lee DH,
Neviaser RJ, eds. _Operative Techniques: Shoulder and Elbow Surgery_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 54.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Elbow Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

