Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007258.htm    
                                Description: Elbow replacement is surgery to replace the elbow joint with artificial joint parts (prosthetics).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Elbow replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007258.htm

# Elbow replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Elbow replacement is surgery to replace the elbow joint with artificial joint
parts (prosthetics).

## Description

The elbow joint connects three bones:

      * The humerus in the upper arm
      * The ulna and radius in the lower arm (forearm)

The artificial elbow joint has two or three stems made of high-quality metal.
A metal and plastic hinge joins the stems together and allows the artificial
joint to bend. Artificial joints come in different sizes to fit people of
different sizes.

The surgery is done in the following way:

      * You'll receive general anesthesia. This means you'll be asleep and unable to feel pain. Or you'll receive regional anesthesia (spinal and epidural) to numb your arm.
      * A cut (incision) is made on the back of your elbow so that the surgeon can view your elbow joint.
      * The damaged tissue and parts of the arm bones that make up the elbow joint are removed.
      * A drill is used to make a hole in the center of the arm bones.
      * The ends of the artificial joint are usually glued in place into each bone. They can be connected with a hinge.
      * The tissue around the new joint is repaired.

The wound is closed with stitches, and a bandaged is applied. Your arm may be
placed in a splint to keep it stable.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Elbow replacement surgery is usually done if the elbow joint is badly damaged
and you have pain or cannot use your arm. Some causes of damage are:

      * Osteoarthritis
      * Poor outcome from past elbow surgery
      * Rheumatoid arthritis
      * Badly broken bone in the upper or lower arm near the elbow
      * Badly damaged or torn tissues in the elbow
      * Tumor in or around the elbow
      * Stiff elbow

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

      * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of this procedure include:

      * Blood vessel damage during surgery
      * Bone break during surgery
      * Dislocation of the artificial joint
      * Loosening of the artificial joint over time
      * Nerve damage during surgery 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon what medicines you are taking, including drugs, supplements,
or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

      * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These include warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or NSAIDs such as aspirin. These might cause increased bleeding during surgery.
      * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will likely ask you to see the doctor who treats you for these conditions.
      * Tell your surgeon if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol (more than 1 or 2 drinks a day).
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow wound healing.
      * Tell your surgeon if you develop a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness before your surgery. The surgery may need to be postponed.

On the day of your surgery:

      * Follow instructions about not drinking or eating anything before the procedure.
      * Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You may stay in the hospital for up to 2 or 3 days. After you go home, follow
instructions on how to care for your wound and elbow.

Physical therapy will be needed to help you gain strength and use of your arm.
It will start with gentle flexing exercises. People who have a splint usually
start therapy a few weeks later than those who do not have a splint.

Some people can start to use their new elbow as soon as 12 weeks after
surgery. Complete recovery can take up to a year. There will be limits to how
much weight you can lift. Lifting too heavy of a load can break the
replacement elbow or loosen the parts. Talk to your surgeon about your
limitations.

It is important to follow-up with your doctor regularly to check how your
replacement is doing. Be sure to go to all your appointments.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Elbow replacement surgery eases pain for most people. A second elbow
replacement surgery is usually not as successful as the first one.

## Alternative Names

Total elbow arthroplasty; Endoprosthetic elbow replacement; Arthritis - elbow
arthroplasty; Osteoarthritis - elbow arthroplasty; Degenerative arthritis -
elbow arthroplasty; DJD - elbow arthroplasty

## Patient Instructions

      * Elbow replacement - discharge 
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Elbow prosthesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21737t.jpg)Elbow prosthesis

## References

Cohen MS, Chen NC. Total elbow arthroplasty. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN,
Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 27.

Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Elbow Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ElbowInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Elbow
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

