Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007240.htm    
                                Description: A mechanical ventilator is a machine that assists with breathing. This article discusses the use of mechanical ventilators in infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mechanical ventilator - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007240.htm

# Mechanical ventilator - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A mechanical ventilator is a machine that assists with breathing. This article
discusses the use of mechanical ventilators in infants.

## Information

WHY IS A MECHANICAL VENTILATOR USED?

A ventilator is used to provide breathing support for ill or immature babies.
Sick or premature babies are often unable to breathe well enough on their own.
They may need help from a ventilator to provide "good air" (oxygen) to the
lungs and to remove "bad" exhaled air (carbon dioxide).

HOW IS A MECHANICAL VENTILATOR USED?

A ventilator is a bedside machine. It is attached to the breathing tube that
is placed into the windpipe (trachea) of sick babies who need help breathing.
Caregivers can adjust the ventilator as needed. Adjustments are made depending
on the baby's condition, blood gas measurements, and x-rays.

WHAT ARE THE RISKS OF A MECHANICAL VENTILATOR?

Most babies who need ventilator assistance have some lung problems, including
immature or diseased lungs, which are at risk for injury. Sometimes,
delivering oxygen under pressure can damage the fragile air sacs (alveoli) in
the lungs. This can lead to air leaks, which can make it difficult for the
ventilator to help the baby breathe.

      * The most common type of air leak occurs when air gets into the space between the lung and inner chest wall. This is called a pneumothorax. This air can be removed with a tube placed into the space until the pneumothorax heals.
      * A less common kind of air leak occurs when many tiny pockets of air are found in the lung tissue around the air sacs. This is called pulmonary interstitial emphysema. This air cannot be removed. However, it most often slowly goes away on its own.

Long-term damage may also occur because newborn lungs are not yet fully
developed. This can lead to a form of long-term (chronic) lung disease that is
called bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). This is why caregivers closely
monitor the baby. Caregivers will try to "wean" the baby from oxygen or
decrease the ventilator settings whenever possible. How much breathing support
is given will depend on the baby's needs.

## Alternative Names

Ventilator - infants; Respirator - infants

## References

Bancalari E, Claure N, Jain D. Neonatal respiratory therapy. In: Gleason CA,
Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

Donn SM, Sinha SK. Assisted ventilation and its complications. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 73.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Critical
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CriticalCare_thumb.jpg)Critical Care
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

