Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001072.htm    
                                Description: Achilles tendinitis occurs when the tendon that connects the back of your leg to your heel becomes swollen and painful near the bottom of the foot. This tendon is called the Achilles tendon. It allows    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Achilles tendinitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001072.htm

# Achilles tendinitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Achilles tendinitis occurs when the tendon that connects the back of your leg
to your heel becomes swollen and painful near the bottom of the foot. This
tendon is called the Achilles tendon. It allows you to push your foot down.
You use your Achilles tendon when walking, running, and jumping.

## Causes

There are two large muscles in the calf. These create the power needed to push
off with the foot or go up on the toes. The large Achilles tendon connects
these muscles to the heel.

Heel pain is most often due to overuse of the foot. Rarely, it is caused by an
injury.

Tendinitis due to overuse is most common in younger people. It can occur in
walkers, runners, or other athletes.

Achilles tendinitis may be more likely to occur if:

      * There is a sudden increase in the amount or intensity of an activity.
      * Your calf muscles are very tight (not stretched out).
      * You run on hard surfaces, such as concrete.
      * You run too often.
      * You jump a lot (such as when playing basketball).
      * You DO NOT wear shoes that give your feet proper support.
      * Your foot suddenly turns in or out. 

Tendinitis from arthritis is more common in middle-aged and older adults. A
bone spur or growth may form in the back of the heel bone. This may irritate
the Achilles tendon and cause pain and swelling. Flat feet will put more
tension on the tendon.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include pain in the heel and along the length of the tendon when
walking or running. The area may feel painful and stiff in the morning.

The tendon may be painful to touch or move. The area may be swollen and warm.
You may have trouble standing up on one toe. You may also have trouble finding
shoes that fit comfortably.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. They will look for
tenderness along the tendon and pain in the area of the tendon when you stand
on your toes.

X-rays can help diagnose bone problems.

An MRIÂ of the foot scan may be done if you are considering surgery or there
is a chance that you have a tear in the Achilles tendon.

## Treatment

The main treatments for Achilles tendinitis DO NOT involve surgery. It is
important to remember that it may take at least 2 to 3 months for the pain to
go away.

Try putting ice on the Achilles tendon area for 15 to 20 minutes, 2 to 3 times
per day. Remove the ice if the area gets numb.

Changes in activity may help manage the symptoms:

      * Decrease or stop any activity that causes pain.
      * Run or walk on smoother and softer surfaces.
      * Switch to biking, swimming, or other activities that put less stress on the Achilles tendon. 

Your provider or physical therapist can show you stretching exercises for the
Achilles tendon.

You may also need to make changes in your footwear, such as:

      * Using a brace, boot or cast to keep the heel and tendon still and allow the swelling to go down
      * Placing heel lifts in the shoe under the heel
      * Wearing shoes that are softer in the areas over and under the heel cushion 

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin and ibuprofen,
can help ease pain or swelling.

If these treatments DO NOT improve symptoms, you may need surgery to remove
inflamed tissue and abnormal areas of the tendon. If there is a bone spur
irritating the tendon, surgery can be used to remove the spur.

Extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) may be an alternative to surgery for
people who have not responded to other treatments. This treatment uses low-
dose sound waves.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, lifestyle changes help improve symptoms. Keep in mind that
symptoms may return if you DO NOT limit activities that cause pain, or if you
DO NOT maintain the strength and flexibility of the tendon.

## Possible Complications

Achilles tendinitis may make you more likely to have an Achilles rupture. This
condition most often causes a sharp pain that feels as if you have been hit in
the back of the heel with a stick. Surgical repair is necessary. However, the
surgery mayÂ not be as successful as usual because there is already damage to
the tendon.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have pain in the heel around the Achilles tendon that is worse with activity.
      * You have sharp pain and are unable to walk without extreme pain or weakness.

## Prevention

Exercises to keep your calf muscles strong and flexible will help reduce the
risk for tendinitis. Overusing a weak or tight Achilles tendon makes you more
likely to develop tendinitis.

## Alternative Names

Tendinitis of the heel

## Images

      * ![Inflamed Achilles tendon](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8612t.jpg)Inflamed Achilles tendon

## References

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders and sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

Hogrefe C, Jones EM. Tendinopathy and bursitis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice._ Â 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 107.

Irwin TA. Tendon injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 117.

Yin MC, Ye J, Yao M, et al. Is extracorporeal shock wave therapy clinical
efficacy for relief of chronic, recalcitrant plantar fasciitis? A systematic
review and meta-analysis of randomized placebo or active-treatment controlled
trials. _Arch Phys Med Rehabil_. 2014;95(8):1585-1593. PMID: 24662810
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24662810.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heel Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeelInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Heel
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Tendinitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tendinitis_thumb.jpg)Tendinitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

