Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000836.htm    
                                Description: When you overuse the Achilles tendon, it can become swollen and painful near the bottom of the foot and cause heel pain. This is called Achilles tendonitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heel pain and Achilles tendonitis - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000836.htm

# Heel pain and Achilles tendonitis - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you overuse the Achilles tendon, it can become swollen and painful near
the bottom of the foot and cause heel pain. This is called Achilles
tendonitis.

## More About Your Injury

The Achilles tendon connects your calf muscles to your heel bone. Together,
they help you push your heel off the ground when you stand up on your toes.
You use these muscles and your Achilles tendon when you walk, run, and jump.

Heel pain is most often due to overuse of the foot. It is rarely caused by an
injury.

Tendonitis due to overuse is most common in younger people. It can occur in
walkers, runners, or other athletes.

Tendonitis from arthritis is more common in middle aged or older adults. A
bone spur or growth may form in the back of the heel bone. This may irritate
the Achilles tendon and causes pain and swelling.

## What To Expect

You might feel pain in the heel along the length of the tendon when walking or
running. Your pain and stiffness might increase in the morning. The tendon may
be painful to touch. The area may be warm and swollen.

You might also have trouble standing up on one toe and moving the foot up and
down.

Your health care provider will examine your foot. You may have an X-ray or an
MRI to check for problems with your bones or with your Achilles tendon.

## Self-care at Home

Follow these steps to relieve symptoms and help your injury heal:

      * Apply ice over the Achilles tendon for 15 to 20 minutes, 2 to 3 times per day. Use an ice pack wrapped in a cloth. DO NOT apply ice directly to skin.
      * Take painkillers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to decrease inflammation and pain.
      * Wear a walking boot or heel lifts if recommended by your provider. 

Talk with your provider before using pain medicines if you have heart disease,
high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal
bleeding in the past. DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the
bottle or by your provider.

## Activity

To allow your tendon to heal, you should stop or decrease activities that
cause pain, such as running or jumping.

      * Do activities that do not strain the tendon, such as swimming or cycling.
      * When walking or running, choose soft, smooth surfaces. Avoid hills.
      * Gradually increase the amount of activity you do. 

Your provider may give you exercises to stretch and strengthen the muscles and
tendon.

      * Range of motion exercises will help you regain movement in all directions.
      * Do exercises gently. DO NOT over-stretch, which can injure your Achilles tendon.
      * Strengthening exercises will help prevent tendonitis from coming back.

## Follow up

If your symptoms do not improve with self-care in 2 weeks, see your health
care provider. If your injury does not heal with self-care, you may need to
see a physical therapist.

Having tendonitis puts you at risk for an Achilles tendon rupture. You can
help prevent further problems by keeping up with stretching and strengthening
exercises to keep your foot flexible and strong.

## When To Call the Doctor

You should call your provider:

      * If your symptoms do not improve or get worse
      * You notice a sharp pain in your ankle
      * You have trouble walking or standing on your foot 

## References

Brotzman SB. Achilles tendinopathy. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds.
_Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 44.

Grear BJ. Disorders of tendons and fascia and adolescent and adult pes planus.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 82.

Irwin TA. Tendon injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR.
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 118.

Silverstein JA, Moeller JL, Hutchinson MR. Common issues in orthopedics. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 30.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heel Injuries and Disorders
      * Tendinitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

