Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001242.htm    
                                Description: Tenosynovitis is inflammation of the lining of the sheath that surrounds a tendon (the cord that joins muscle to bone).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tenosynovitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001242.htm

# Tenosynovitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tenosynovitis is inflammation of the lining of the sheath that surrounds a
tendon (the cord that joins muscle to bone).

## Causes

The synovium is a lining of the protective sheath that covers tendons.
Tenosynovitis is inflammation of this sheath. The cause of the inflammation
may be unknown, or it may result from:

      * Diseases that cause inflammation
      * Infection
      * Injury
      * Overuse
      * Strain

The wrists, hands, ankles, and feet are commonly affected because the tendons
are long across those joints. But, the condition may occur with any tendon
sheath.

An infected cut to the hands or wrists that causes infectious tenosynovitis
may be an emergency requiring surgery.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Difficulty moving the joint
      * Joint swelling in the affected area
      * Pain and tenderness around the joint
      * Pain when moving the joint
      * Redness along the length of the tendon 

Fever, swelling, and redness may indicate an infection, especially if a
puncture or cut caused these symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination. The provider may
touch or stretch the tendon. You may be asked to move the joint to see if it's
painful.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve pain and reduce inflammation. Rest or
keeping the affected tendons still is essential for recovery.

Your provider may suggest the following:

      * Using a splint or removable brace to help keep the tendons still
      * Applying heat or cold to the affected area to help reduce pain and inflammation
      * Medicines such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or corticosteroid injection to relieve pain and reduce inflammation
      * In rare cases, surgery to remove the inflammation around the tendon

Tenosynovitis caused by infection needs to be treated right away. Your
provider will prescribe antibiotics. In severe cases, emergency surgery is
needed to release the pus around the tendon.

Ask your provider about strengthening exercises that you can do after you
recover. These may help prevent the condition from coming back.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people fully recover with treatment. If tenosynovitis is caused by
overuse and the activity is not stopped, it is likely to come back. If the
tendon is damaged, recovery may be slow or the condition may become chronic
(ongoing).

## Possible Complications

If tenosynovitis is not treated, the tendon may become permanently restricted
or it may tear (rupture). The affected joint can become stiff.

Infection in the tendon may spread, which could be serious and threaten the
affected limb.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have pain or difficulty
straightening a joint or limb. Call right away if you notice a red streak on
your hand, wrist, ankle, or foot. This is a sign of an infection.

## Prevention

Avoiding repetitive movements and overuse of tendons may help prevent
tenosynovitis.

Use the appropriate wound care techniques to clean cuts on the hand, wrist,
ankle, and foot.

## Alternative Names

Inflammation of the tendon sheath

## References

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders and sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

Cannon DL. Hand infections. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's
Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 78.

Hogrefe C, Jones EM. Tendinopathy and bursitis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 107.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tendinitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tendinitis_thumb.jpg)Tendinitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

