Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000537.htm    
                                Description: A tendon is thick, bendable tissue that connects muscle to bone. Two tendons run from the back of your thumb down the side of your wrist. De Quervain tendinitis is caused when these tendons are swollen    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

De Quervain tendinitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000537.htm

# De Quervain tendinitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tendon is thick, bendable tissue that connects muscle to bone. Two tendons
run from the back of your thumb down the side of your wrist. De Quervain
tendinitis is caused when these tendons are swollen and irritated.

## More About Your Injury

De Quervain tendinitis can be caused by playing sports such as tennis, golf,
or rowing. Constantly lifting babies and toddlers can also strain the tendons
in the wrist and lead to this condition.

If you have De Quervain tendinitis, you may notice:

      * Pain on the back of your thumb when you make a fist, grab something, or turn your wrist
      * Numbness in the thumb and index finger
      * Swelling of the wrist
      * Stiffness when moving your thumb or wrist 
      * Popping of the wrist tendons

## What to Expect

De Quervain tendinitis is usually treated with rest, splints, medicine,
changes in activity, and exercise. Your doctor may also give you a shot of
cortisone to help decrease pain and swelling.

If your tendinitis is chronic, you may need surgery to give the tendon more
room to slide without rubbing on the tunnel wall.

## Symptom Relief

Ice your wrist for 20 minutes of every hour while awake. Wrap the ice in
cloth. DO NOT put ice directly on the skin because this can result in
frostbite.

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

      * Talk with your health care provider before using these drugs if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Activity

Rest your wrist. Keep your wrist from moving for at least 1 week. You can do
this with a wrist splint.

Wear a wrist splint during any sports or activities that could put stress on
your wrist.

Once you can move your wrist without pain, you can start light stretching to
increase strength and movement.

Your provider may recommend physical therapy so that you can return to normal
activity as soon as possible.

To increase strength and flexibility, do light stretching exercises. One
exercise is squeezing a tennis ball.

      * Lightly grasp a tennis ball.
      * Gently squeeze the ball and add more pressure if there is no pain or discomfort.
      * Hold for 5 seconds, then release your grip.
      * Repeat 5 to 10 times.
      * Do this a few times a day.

Before and after any activity:

      * Use a heating pad on your wrist to warm the area.
      * Massage the area around your wrist and thumb to loosen the muscles.
      * Ice your wrist and take pain medicine after activity if there is discomfort.

The best way for the tendons to heal is to stick to a care plan. The more you
rest and do the exercises, the quicker your wrist will heal.

## When to Call the Doctor

Follow up with your provider if:

      * The pain is not improving or becomes worse
      * Your wrist becomes more stiff
      * You have increasing numbness or tingling in the wrist and fingers, or if they turn white or blue 

## Alternative Names

Tendinopathy - De Quervain tendinitis; de Quervain tenosynovitis

## References

O'Neill CJ. de Quervain tenosynovitis. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD
Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 28.

Swigart CR, Fishman FG. Hand and wrist pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 50.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Tendinitis
      * Wrist Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

