Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003550.htm    
                                Description: A histocompatibility antigen blood test looks at proteins called human leukocyte antigens (HLAs). These are found on the surface of almost all cells in the human body. HLAs are found in large amounts on    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Histocompatibility antigen test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003550.htm

# Histocompatibility antigen test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A histocompatibility antigen blood test looks at proteins called human
leukocyte antigens (HLAs). These are found on the surface of almost all cells
in the human body. HLAs are found in large amounts on the surface of white
blood cells. They help the immune system tell the difference between body
tissue and substances that are not from your own body.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is drawn from a vein.Â You may feel slight pain or a sting when the
needle is inserted. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to prepare for this test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The results from this test can be used to identify good matches for tissue
grafts and organ transplants. These may include kidney transplant or bone
marrow transplant.

It may also be used to:

      * Diagnose certain autoimmune disorders.Â Drug-induced hypersensitivity is an example.
      * Determine relationships between children and parents when such relationships are in question.
      * Monitor treatment with some medicines.

## Normal Results

You have a small set of HLAs that are passed down from your parents. Children,
on average, will have half of their HLAs match half of their mother's and half
of their HLAs match half of their father's.

It is unlikely that two unrelated people will have the same HLA makeup.
However, identical twins may match each other.

Some HLA types are more common in certain autoimmune diseases. For example,
HLA-B27 antigen is found in many people (but not all) with ankylosing
spondylitis and Reiter syndrome.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

HLA typing; Tissue typing

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
      * ![Bone Tissue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1679t.jpg)Bone Tissue

## References

Fagoaga OR. Human leukocyte antigen: the major histocompatibility complex of
man. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
49.

Monos DS, Winchester RJ. The major histocompatibility complex. In: Rich RR,
Fleisher TA, Shearer WT, Schroeder HW, Few AJ, Weyand CM, eds. _Clinical
Immunology: Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 5.

Wang E, Adams S, Stroncek DF, Marincola FM. Human leukocyte antigen and human
neutrophil antigen systems. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al,
eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 113.

## Review Date 1/23/2019

Updated by: Frank A. Greco, MD, PhD, Director, Biophysical Laboratory, Edith
Nourse Rogers Memorial Hospital, Bedford, MA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Organ
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OrganTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Organ
Transplantation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

