Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000815.htm    
                                Description: Transplant rejection is a process in which a transplant recipient    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transplant rejection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000815.htm

# Transplant rejection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transplant rejection is a process in which a transplant recipient's immune
system attacks the transplanted organ or tissue.

## Causes

Your body's immune system usually protects you from substances that may be
harmful, such as germs, poisons, and sometimes, cancer cells.

These harmful substances have proteins called antigens coating their surfaces.
As soon as these antigens enter the body, the immune system recognizes that
they are not from that person's body and that they are "foreign," and attacks
them.

When a person receives an organ from someone else during transplant surgery,
that person's immune system may recognize that it is foreign. This is because
the person's immune system detects that the antigens on the cells of the organ
are different or not "matched." Mismatched organs, orÂ organs that are not
matched closely enough, can trigger a blood transfusion reaction or transplant
rejection.

To help prevent this reaction, doctors type, or match both the organ donor and
the person who is receiving the organ. The more similar the antigens are
between the donor and recipient, the less likely that the organ will be
rejected.

Tissue typing ensures that the organ or tissue is as similar as possible to
the tissues of the recipient. The match is usually not perfect. No two people,
except identical twins, have identical tissue antigens.

Doctors useÂ medicines to suppress the recipient's immune system. The goal is
to prevent the immune system from attacking the newly transplanted organ when
the organ is not closely matched. If theseÂ medicines are not used, the body
will almost always launch an immune response and destroy the foreign tissue.

There are some exceptions, though. Cornea transplants are rarely rejected
because the cornea has no blood supply. Also, transplants from one identical
twin to another are almost never rejected.

There are three types of rejection:

      * Hyperacute rejection occurs a few minutes after the transplant when the antigens are completely unmatched. The tissue must be removed right away so the recipient does not die. This type of rejection is seen when a recipient is given the wrong type of blood. For example, when a person is given type A blood when he or she is type B.
      * Acute rejection may occur any time from the first week after the transplant to 3 months afterward.Â All recipients have some amount of acute rejection.
      * Chronic rejection can take place over many years. The body's constant immune response against the new organ slowly damages the transplanted tissues or organ.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * The organ's function may start to decrease
      * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling
      * Pain or swelling in the area of the organ (rare)
      * Fever (rare)
      * Flu-like symptoms, including chills, body aches, nausea, cough, and shortness of breath

The symptoms depend on the transplanted organ or tissue. For example, patients
who reject a kidney may have less urine, and patients who reject a heart may
have symptoms of heart failure.

## Exams and Tests

The doctor will examine the area over and around the transplanted organ.

Signs that the organ is not working properly include:

      * High blood sugar (pancreas transplant)
      * Less urine released (kidney transplant)
      * Shortness of breath and less ability to exercise (heart transplant or lung transplant)
      * Yellow skin color and easy bleeding (liver transplant) 

A biopsy of the transplanted organ can confirm that it is being rejected. A
routine biopsy is often performed periodically to detect rejection early,
before symptoms develop.

When organ rejection is suspected, one or more of the following tests may be
done before the organ biopsy:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Heart echocardiography
      * Kidney arteriography
      * Kidney ultrasound
      * Lab tests of kidney or liver function 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to make sure the transplanted organ or tissue works
properly, and to suppress your immune system response. Suppressing the immune
response may prevent transplant rejection.

Medicines will likely be used to suppress the immune response. Dosage and
choice of medicines depends on your condition. The dosage may be very high
while the tissue is being rejected. After you no longer have signs of
rejection, the dosage will likely be lowered.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some organ and tissue transplants are more successful than others. If
rejection begins,Â medicines that suppress the immune system may stop the
rejection. Most people need to take theseÂ medicines for the rest of their
life.

Even though medicines are used to suppress the immune system, organ
transplants can still fail because of rejection.

Single episodes of acute rejection rarely lead to organ failure.

Chronic rejection is the leading cause of organ transplant failure. The organ
slowly loses its function and symptoms start to appear. This type of rejection
cannot be effectively treated with medicines. Some people may need another
transplant.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from transplant or transplant rejection
include:

      * Certain cancers (in some people who take strong immune-suppressing medicines for a long time)
      * Infections (because the person's immune system is suppressed by taking immune-suppressing medicines)
      * Loss of function in the transplanted organ/tissue
      * Side effects of medicines, which may be severe

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call yourÂ doctor if the transplanted organ or tissue does not seem to be
working properly, or if other symptoms occur. Also, call yourÂ doctor if you
have side effectsÂ from medicines you are taking.

## Prevention

ABO blood typing and HLA (tissue antigen) typing before a transplant helps
ensure a close match.

You will likely need to take medicine to suppress your immune system for the
rest of your life to prevent the tissue from being rejected.

Being careful about taking your post-transplant medicines and being closely
watched by your doctor may help prevent rejection.

## Alternative Names

Graft rejection; Tissue/organ rejection

## Images

      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Abbas AK, Lichtman AH, Pillai S. Transplantation immunology. In: Abbas AK,
Lichtman AH, Pillai S, eds. _Cellular and Molecular Immunology._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

Adams AB, Ford M, Larsen CP. Transplantation immunobiology and
immunosuppression. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Tse G, Marson L. Immunology of graft rejection. In: Forsythe JLR, ed.
_Transplantation: A Companion to Specialist Surgical Practice._ 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 3.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Organ
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OrganTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Organ
Transplantation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

