Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007457.htm    
                                Description: Transplantation is a procedure that is done to replace one of your organs with a healthy one from someone else. The surgery is only one part of a complex, long-term process.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transplant services

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007457.htm

# Transplant services

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transplantation is a procedure that is done to replace one of your organs with
a healthy one from someone else. The surgery is only one part of a complex,
long-term process.

Several experts will help you prepare for the procedure, and make sure you are
comfortable before, during, and after surgery.

## Information

Transplant surgery is typically done to replace a diseased body part with a
healthy one.

SOLID ORGAN TRANSPLANTS

      * Auto islet cell transplant is done after a person has their pancreas removed due to long-term (chronic) pancreatitis. The procedure takes insulin-producing cells from the pancreas and returns them to the person's body.
      * Corneal transplant replaces a damaged or diseased cornea. The cornea is the clear tissue on the front of the eye that helps focus light on the retina. It is the part of the eye on which a contact lens rests.
      * Heart transplant is an option for someone with congestive heart failure that has not responded to medical treatment.
      * Intestinal transplant is an option for people with short bowel or short gut syndrome or advanced liver disease, or who must receive all nutrients through a feeding line.
      * Kidney transplant is an option for someone with long-term (chronic) kidney failure. It may be done with a kidney-pancreas transplant.
      * Liver transplant may be the only option for someone with liver disease that has led to liver failure.
      * Lung transplant may replace one or both lungs. It may be the only option for someone with lung disease who has not gotten better using other medicines and therapies, and is expected to survive for less than 2 years. 

BLOOD/BONE MARROW TRANSPLANTS (STEM CELL TRANSPLANTS)

You may need a stem cell transplant if you have a disease that damages the
cells in bone marrow, or if you received high doses of chemotherapy or
radiation.

Depending on the type of transplant, your procedure may be called a bone
marrow transplant, a cord blood transplant, or a peripheral blood stem cell
transplant. All three use stem cells, which are immature cells that give rise
to all blood cells. Stem cell transplants are similar to blood transfusions
and generally do not need surgery.

There are two different types of transplants:

      * Autologous transplants use your own blood cells or bone marrow.
      * Allogeneic transplants use a donor's blood cells or bone marrow. A syngeneic allogenic transplant uses cells or bone marrow from the person's identical twin. 

THE TRANSPLANT SERVICES TEAM

The transplant services team includes carefully selected experts, including:

      * Surgeons who specialize in performing organ transplants
      * Medical doctors
      * Radiologists and medical imaging technologists
      * Nurses
      * Infectious disease experts
      * Physical therapists
      * Psychiatrists, psychologists, and other counselors
      * Social workers
      * Nutritionists and dietitians 

BEFORE AN ORGAN TRANSPLANT

You will have a complete medical exam to identify and treat all medical
problems, such as kidney and heart disease.

The transplant team will evaluate you and review your medical history to
determine if you meet the criteria for organ transplantation. Most types of
organ transplants have guidelines detailing what type of person is most likely
to benefit from a transplant and will be able to manage the challenging
process.

If the transplant team believes you are a good candidate for a transplant, you
will be put on a national waiting list. Your place on a waiting list is based
on a number of factors, which depend on the type of transplant you are
receiving.

Once you are on the waiting list, the search for a matching donor begins.
Types of donors depend on your specific transplant, but include:

      * A living related donor is related to you, such as a parent, sibling, or child.
      * A living unrelated donor is a person, such as a friend or spouse.
      * A deceased donor is someone who has recently died. The heart, liver, kidneys, lungs, intestines, and pancreas can be recovered from an organ donor. 

After donating an organ, living donors can live a normal, healthy life.

You should identify family, friends, or other caregivers who can offer help
and support during and after the transplant process.

You will also want to prepare your home to make it comfortable for when you
return after being released from the hospital.

AFTER A TRANSPLANT

How long you stay in the hospital depends on the type of transplant that you
have. During your time in the hospital, you will be seen daily by the
transplant services team.

Your transplant services coordinators will arrange for your discharge. They
will discuss with you plans for care at home, transportation to clinic visits,
and housing, if needed.

You will be told how to take care of yourself after the transplant. This will
include information about:

      * Medicines
      * How often you need to visit the doctor or clinic
      * What daily activities are allowed or off-limits 

After leaving the hospital, you will return home.

You will have periodic follow-ups with the transplant team, as well as with
your primary care doctor and any other specialists that may be recommended.
The transplant services team will be available to answer any questions that
you may have.

## References

Adams AB, Ford M, Larsen CP. Transplantation immunobiology and
immunosuppression. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Forsythe JLR. _Transplantation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014.

United Network for Organ Sharing. Transplantation. unos.org/transplantation.
Accessed March 16, 2018.

US Department of Health & Human Services, Organdonor.gov website. Learn about
organ donation. organdonor.gov/about.html. Accessed March 16, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Organ
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OrganTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Organ
Transplantation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

