Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001119.htm    
                                Description: An aneurysm is an abnormal widening or ballooning of a portion of an artery due to weakness in the wall of the blood vessel.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thoracic aortic aneurysm

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001119.htm

# Thoracic aortic aneurysm

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An aneurysm is an abnormal widening or ballooning of a portion of an artery
due to weakness in the wall of the blood vessel.

A thoracic aortic aneurysm occurs in the part of the body's largest artery
(the aorta) that passes through the chest.

## Causes

The most common cause of a thoracic aortic aneurysm is hardening of the
arteries. This condition is more common in people with high cholesterol, long-
term high blood pressure, or who smoke.

Other risk factors for a thoracic aneurysm include:

      * Changes caused by age
      * Connective tissue disorders such as Marfan or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
      * Inflammation of the aorta
      * Injury from falls or motor vehicle accidents
      * Syphilis 

## Symptoms

Aneurysms develop slowly over many years. Most people have no symptoms until
the aneurysm begins to leak or expand.

Symptoms often begin suddenly when:

      * The aneurysm grows quickly.
      * The aneurysm tears open (called a rupture).
      * Blood leaks along the wall of the aorta (aortic dissection).

If the aneurysm presses on nearby structures, the following symptoms may
occur:

      * Hoarseness
      * Swallowing problems
      * High-pitched breathing (stridor)
      * Swelling in the neck

Other symptoms may include:

      * Chest or upper back pain
      * Clammy skin
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Sense of impending doom

## Exams and Tests

The physical exam is often normal unless a rupture or leak has occurred.

Most thoracic aortic aneurysms are detected on imaging tests performed for
other reasons. These tests include chest x-ray, echocardiogram, or chest CT
scan or MRI. A chest CT scan shows the size of the aorta and the exact
location of the aneurysm.

An aortogram (a special set of x-ray images made when dye is injected into the
aorta) can identify the aneurysm and any branches of the aorta that may be
involved.

## Treatment

There is a risk that the aneurysm may open up (rupture) if you do not have
surgery to repair it.

The treatment depends on the location of the aneurysm. The aorta is made of
three parts:

      * The first part moves upward toward the head. It is called the ascending aorta.
      * The middle part is curved. It is called the aortic arch.
      * The last part moves downward, toward the feet. It is called the descending aorta.

For people with aneurysms of the ascending aorta or aortic arch:

      * Surgery to replace the aorta is recommended if an aneurysm is larger than 5 to 6 centimeters.
      * A cut is made in the middle of the chest bone.
      * The aorta is replaced with a plastic or fabric graft.
      * This is major surgery that requires a heart-lung machine.

For people with aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta:

      * Major surgery is done to replace the aorta with a fabric graft if the aneurysm is larger than 6 centimeters.
      * This surgery is done through a cut on the left side of the chest, which may reach to the abdomen.
      * Endovascular stenting is a less invasive option. A stent is a tiny metal or plastic tube that is used to hold an artery open. Stents can be placed into the body without cutting the chest. However, not all people with descending thoracic aneurysms are candidates for stenting.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The long-term outlook for people with thoracic aortic aneurysm depends on
other medical problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, and
diabetes. These problems may have caused or contributed to the condition.

## Possible Complications

Serious complications after aortic surgery can include:

      * Bleeding
      * Graft infection
      * Heart attack
      * Irregular heartbeat
      * Kidney damage
      * Paralysis
      * Stroke

Death soon after the operation occurs in 5% to 10% of people.

Complications after aneurysm stenting include damage to the blood vessels
supplying the leg, which may require another operation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your health care provider if you have:

      * A family history of connective tissue disorders (such as Marfan or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome)
      * Chest or back discomfort 

## Prevention

To prevent atherosclerosis:

      * Control your blood pressure and blood lipid levels.
      * DO NOT smoke.
      * Eat a healthy diet.
      * Exercise regularly. 

## Alternative Names

Aortic aneurysm - thoracic; Syphilitic aneurysm; Aneurysm - thoracic aortic

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
      * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge

## Images

      * ![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18072t.jpg)Aortic aneurysm
      * ![Aortic rupture - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1149t.jpg)Aortic rupture - chest x-ray

## References

Acher CW, Wynn M. Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysms: open surgical
treatment. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 77.

Braverman AC. Diseases of the aorta. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 57.

Lederle FA. Diseases of the aorta. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

Singh MJ, Makaroun MS. Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysms: endovascular
treatment. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 78.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

