Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000181.htm    
                                Description: Aortic dissection is a serious condition in which there is a tear in the wall of the major artery carrying blood out of the heart (aorta). As the tear extends along the wall of the aorta, blood can flow    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aortic dissection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000181.htm

# Aortic dissection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aortic dissection is a serious condition in which there is a tear in the wall
of the major artery carrying blood out of the heart (aorta). As the tear
extends along the wall of the aorta, blood can flow in between the layers of
the blood vessel wall (dissection). This can lead to aortic rupture or
decreased blood flow (ischemia) to organs.

![Aortic dissection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18073.jpg)

## Causes

When it leaves the heart, the aorta first moves up through the chest towards
the head (the ascending aorta). It then bends or arches, and finally moves
down through the chest and abdomen (the descending aorta).

Aortic dissection most often happens because of a tear or damage to the inner
wall of the aorta. This very often occurs in the chest (thoracic) part of the
artery, but it may also occur in the abdominal aorta.

When a tear occurs, it creates 2 channels:

      * One in which blood continues to travel
      * Another where blood stays still 

If the channel with non-traveling blood gets bigger, it can push on other
branches of the aorta. This can narrow the other branches and reduce blood
flow through them.

An aortic dissection may also cause abnormal widening or ballooning of the
aorta (aneurysm).

![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18072.jpg)

The exact cause is unknown, but more common risks include:

      * Aging
      * Atherosclerosis
      * Blunt trauma to the chest, such as hitting the steering wheel of a car during an accident
      * High blood pressure

Other risk factors and conditions linked to aortic dissection include:

      * Bicuspid aortic valve
      * Coarctation (narrowing) of the aorta
      * Connective tissue disorders (such as Marfan syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome) and rare genetic disorders
      * Heart surgery or procedures
      * Pregnancy
      * Swelling of the blood vessels due to conditions such as arteritis and syphilis 

Aortic dissection occurs in about 2 out of every 10,000 people. It can affect
anyone, but is most often seen in men ages 40 to 70.

## Symptoms

In most cases, the symptoms begin suddenly, and include severe chest pain. The
pain may feel like a heart attack.

      * Pain can be described as sharp, stabbing, tearing, or ripping.
      * It is felt below the chest bone, and then moves under the shoulder blades or to the back.
      * Pain can move to the shoulder, neck, arm, jaw, abdomen, or hips.
      * The pain changes position, often moving to the arms and legs as the aortic dissection gets worse.

Symptoms are caused by a decrease of blood flowing to the rest of the body,
and can include:

      * Anxiety and a feeling of doom
      * Fainting or dizziness
      * Heavy sweating (clammy skin)
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Pale skin (pallor)
      * Rapid, weak pulse 
      * Shortness of breath and trouble breathing when lying flat (orthopnea) 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Pain in the abdomen
      * Stroke symptoms
      * Swallowing difficulties from pressure on the esophagus 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take your family history and listen to your
heart, lungs, and abdomen with a stethoscope. The exam may find:

      * A "blowing" murmur over the aorta, heart murmur, or other abnormal sound
      * A difference in blood pressure between the right and left arms, or between the arms and legs
      * Low blood pressure
      * Signs resembling a heart attack
      * Signs of shock, but with normal blood pressure 

Aortic dissection or aortic aneurysm may be seen on:

      * Aortic angiography
      * Chest x-ray
      * Chest MRI
      * CT scan of chest with dye
      * Doppler ultrasonography (occasionally performed)
      * Echocardiogram
      * Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) 

Blood work to rule out a heart attack is needed.

## Treatment

Aortic dissection is a life-threatening condition and needs to be treated
right away.

      * Dissections that occur in the part of the aorta that is leaving the heart (ascending) are treated with surgery.
      * Dissections that occur in other parts of the aorta (descending) may be managed with surgery or medicines. 

Two techniques may be used for surgery:

      * Standard, open surgery. This requires a surgical incision thatÂ is made in the chest or abdomen.
      * Endovascular aortic repair. This surgery is done without any major surgical incisions. 

Drugs that lower blood pressure may be prescribed. These drugs may be given
through a vein (intravenously). Beta-blockers are the first drugs of choice.
Strong pain relievers are very often needed.

If the aortic valve is damaged, valve replacement is needed. If the heart
arteries are involved, a coronary bypass is also performed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Aortic dissection is life threatening. The condition can be managed with
surgery if it is done before the aorta ruptures. Less than one half of people
with a ruptured aorta survive.

Those who survive will need lifelong, aggressive treatment of high blood
pressure. They will need to be followed up with CT scans every few months to
monitor the aorta.

## Possible Complications

Aortic dissection may decrease or stop the blood flow to many different parts
of the body. This may result in short-term or long-term problems, or damage to
the:

      * Brain
      * Heart
      * Intestines or bowels
      * Kidneys
      * Legs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have symptoms of an aortic dissection or severe chest pain, call 911 or
your local emergency number, or go to the emergency room as quickly as
possible.

## Prevention

Many cases of aortic dissection cannot be prevented.

Things you can do to reduce your risk include:

      * Treating and controlling hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis)
      * Keeping high blood pressure under control, especially if you are at risk for dissection
      * Taking safety precautions to prevent injuries that can cause dissections
      * If you have been diagnosed with Marfan or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, making sure you regularly follow-up with your provider

## Alternative Names

Aortic aneurysm - dissecting; Chest pain - aortic dissection; Thoracic aortic
aneurysm - dissection

## Images

      * ![Aortic rupture - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1149t.jpg)Aortic rupture - chest x-ray
      * ![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18072t.jpg)Aortic aneurysm
      * ![Aortic dissection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18073t.jpg)Aortic dissection

## References

Braverman AC. Diseases of the aorta. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 57.

Conrad MF, Cambria RP. Aortic dissection: epidemiology, pathophysiology,
clinical presentation, and medical and surgical management. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 81.

Lederle FA. Diseases of the aorta. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

