Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000236.htm    
                                Description: Endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is surgery to repair a widened area in your aorta. This is called an aneurysm. The aorta is the large artery that carries blood to your belly, pelvis,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000236.htm

# Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is surgery to repair a
widened area in your aorta. This is called an aneurysm. The aorta is the large
artery that carries blood to your belly, pelvis, and legs.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had endovascular aortic surgery repair for an aneurysm (a widened part) of
the large artery that carries blood to your lower body (aorta).

To perform the procedure:

      * Your doctor made a small incision (cut) near your groin to find your femoral artery.
      * A large tube was inserted into the artery so that other instruments could be inserted.
      * An incision may have been made in the other groin as well as the arm.
      * Your doctor inserted a stent and a man-made (synthetic) graft through the incision into the artery.
      * X-rays were used to guide the stent and graft into your aorta where the aneurysm was located.
      * The graft and stent were opened up and attached to the walls of the aorta.

## What to Expect at Home

The cut in your groin may be sore for several days. You should be able to walk
farther now without needing to rest. But you should take it easy at first. It
may take 6 to 8 weeks to fully recover. You may feel discomfort in your
abdomen for a few days. You may also have a loss of appetite. This will get
better over the next week. You may have constipation or diarrhea for a short
time.

## Self-care

You will need to increase your activity slowly while the incision heals.

      * Walking short distances on a flat surface is OK. Try to walk a little, 3 or 4 times a day. Slowly increase how far you walk each time.
      * Limit going up and down stairs to about 2 times a day for the first 2 to 3 days after the procedure.
      * DO NOT do yard work, drive, or play sports for at least 2 days, or for the number of days your health care provider tells you to wait.
      * DO NOT lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kg) for 2 weeks after the procedure.
You will need to take care of your incision.

      * Your provider will tell you how often to change your dressing.
      * If your incision bleeds or swells, lie down and put pressure on it for 30 minutes, and call your provider.

When you are resting, try keeping your legs raised above the level of your
heart. Place pillows or blankets under your legs to raise them.

Ask your provider about follow-up x-rays you will need to have to check if
your new graft is OK. Having regular checkups to make sure your graft is
working well is a very important part of your care.

Your provider may ask you to take aspirin or another medicine called
clopidogrel (Plavix) when you go home. These medicines are antiplatelet
agents. They prevent the platelets in your blood from clumping together and
forming clots in your arteries or stent. DO NOT stop taking them without
talking with your provider first.

## Lifestyle Changes

Endovascular surgery does not cure the underlying problem with your blood
vessels. Other blood vessels could be affected in the future. Therefore, it is
important to make the lifestyle changes and take the medicines your provider
recommends.

      * Eat a heart-healthy diet.
      * Get regular exercise.
      * Stop smoking (if you smoke).

Take all medicines your doctor has prescribed as directed. This may include
medicines to lower cholesterol, manage high blood pressure, and treat
diabetes.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have pain in your belly or back that does not go away or is very bad.
      * There is bleeding at the catheter insertion site that does not stop when pressure is applied.
      * There is swelling at the catheter site.
      * Your leg or arm below where the catheter was inserted changes color, becomes cool to the touch, pale, or numb.
      * The small incision for your catheter becomes red or painful.
      * Yellow or green discharge is draining from the incision for your catheter.
      * Your legs are swelling.
      * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away with rest.
      * You have dizziness or fainting, or you are very tired.
      * You are coughing up blood, or yellow or green mucus.
      * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
      * You have blood in your stool.
      * Your urine becomes dark colored or you do not urinate as much as usual.
      * You are not able to move your legs.
      * Your belly starts to swell and is painful.

## Alternative Names

AAA repair - endovascular - discharge; Repair - aortic aneurysm - endovascular
- discharge; EVAR - discharge; Endovascular aneurysm repair - discharge

## Images

      * ![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18072t.jpg)Aortic aneurysm

## References

Binster CJ, Sternbergh WC. Endovascular aneurysm repair techniques. In: Sidawy
AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 73.

Braverman AC, Schermerhorn M. Diseases of the aorta. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 63.

Hammond CJ, Nicholson AA. Aortic intervention. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard
JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 85.

Osgood MJ, Black JH. Endovascular treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm. In:
Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:907-916.

Tracci MC, Cherry KJ. The aorta. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

## Read More

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm
      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Abdominal MRI scan
      * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular
      * Aortic angiography
      * Atherosclerosis
      * Risks of tobacco
      * Stent
      * Thoracic aortic aneurysm
      * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure

## Review Date 4/5/2018

Updated by: Michael Sobel, MD, Professor of Vascular Surgery, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Aortic Aneurysm

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

