Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000162.htm    
                                Description: The aorta is the main blood vessel that supplies blood to the abdomen, pelvis, and legs. An abdominal aortic aneurysm occurs when an area of the aorta becomes very large or balloons out.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal aortic aneurysm

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000162.htm

# Abdominal aortic aneurysm

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The aorta is the main blood vessel that supplies blood to the abdomen, pelvis,
and legs. An abdominal aortic aneurysm occurs when an area of the aorta
becomes very large or balloons out.

![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18072.jpg)

## Causes

The exact cause of an aneurysm is unknown. It occurs due to weakness in the
wall of the artery. Factors that can increase your risk of having this problem
include:

      * Smoking
      * High blood pressure
      * Male gender
      * Genetic factors 

An abdominal aortic aneurysm is most often seen in males over age 60 who have
one or more risk factors. The larger the aneurysm, the more likely it is to
break open or tear. This can be life threatening.

## Symptoms

Aneurysms can develop slowly over many years, often with no symptoms. Symptoms
may come on quickly if the aneurysm expands rapidly, tears open or leaks blood
within the wall of the vessel (aortic dissection).

Symptoms of rupture include:

      * Pain in the abdomen or back. The pain may be severe, sudden, persistent, or constant. It may spread to the groin, buttocks, or legs.
      * Passing out.
      * Clammy skin. 
      * Dizziness.
      * Nausea and vomiting.
      * Rapid heart rate. 
      * Shock. 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your abdomen and feel the pulses in
your legs. The provider may find:

      * A lump (mass) in the abdomen
      * Pulsating sensation in the abdomen
      * Stiff or rigid abdomen 

Your provider may find this problem by doing the following tests:

      * Ultrasound of the abdomen when the abdominal aneurysm is first suspected
      * CT scan of the abdomen to confirm the size of the aneurysm
      * CTA (computed tomographic angiogram) to help with surgical planning 

Any one of these tests may be done when you are having symptoms.

You may have an abdominal aortic aneurysm that is not causing any symptoms.
Your provider may order an ultrasound of the abdomen to screen for an
aneurysm.

      * Most men between the ages of 65 to 75, who have smoked during their life should have this test one time.
      * Some men between the ages of 65 to 75, who have never smoked during their life may need this test one time. 

## Treatment

If you have bleeding inside your body from an aortic aneurysm, you will need
surgery right away.

If the aneurysm is small and there are no symptoms:

      * Surgery is rarely done.
      * You and your provider must decide if the risk of having surgery is smaller than the risk of bleeding if you do not have surgery.
      * YourÂ provider may want to check the size of the aneurysm with ultrasound tests every 6 months. 

Most of the time, surgery is done if the aneurysm is bigger than 2 inches (5
centimeters) across or growing quickly. The goal is to do surgery before
complications develop.

There areÂ two types of surgery:

      * Open repairÂ - A large cut is made in your abdomen. The abnormal vessel is replaced with a graft made of man-made material.
      * Endovascular stent graftingÂ - This procedure can be done without making a large cut in your abdomen, so you may recover more quickly. This may be a safer approach if you have certain other medical problems or are an older adult. Endovascular repair can sometimes be done for a leaking or bleeding aneurysm. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is often good if you have surgery to repair the aneurysm before it
ruptures.

When an abdominal aortic aneurysm begins to tear or ruptures, it is a medical
emergency. Only about 1 in 5 people survive a ruptured abdominal aneurysm.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call 911 if you have pain in your belly or back
that is very bad or does not go away.

## Prevention

To reduce the risk of aneurysms:

      * Eat a heart-healthy diet, exercise, stop smoking (if you smoke), and reduce stress.
      * If you have high blood pressure or diabetes, take your medicines as your provider has told you. 

People over age 65 who have ever smoked should have a screening ultrasound
done once.

## Alternative Names

Aneurysm - aortic; AAA

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
      * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge

## Images

      * ![Aortic rupture - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1149t.jpg)Aortic rupture - chest x-ray
      * ![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18072t.jpg)Aortic aneurysm

## References

Braverman AC, Schermerhorn M. Diseases of the aorta. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 63.

Colwell CB, Fox CJ. Abdominal aortic aneurysm. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 76.

LeFevre ML; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for abdominal
aortic aneurysm: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_Ann Intern Med_. 2014;161(4):281-290. PMID: 24957320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24957320.

Woo EW, Damrauer SM. Abdominal aortic aneurysms: open surgical treatment. In:
Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 71.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

