Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007392.htm    
                                Description: Open abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is surgery to fix a widened part in your aorta. This is called an aneurysm. The aorta is the large artery that carries blood to your belly (abdomen), pelvis,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007392.htm

# Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Open abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is surgery to fix a widened part
in your aorta. This is called an aneurysm. The aorta is the large artery that
carries blood to your belly (abdomen), pelvis, and legs.

An aortic aneurysm is when part of this artery becomes too large or balloons
outward.

## Description

The surgery will take place in an operating room. You will be given general
anesthesia (you will be asleep and pain-free).

Your surgeon opens up your belly and replaces the aortic aneurysm with a man-
made, cloth-like material.

Here is how it can be done:

      * In one approach, you will lie on your back. The surgeon will make a cut in the middle of your belly, from just below the breastbone to below the belly button. Rarely, the cut goes across the belly.
      * In another approach, you will lie slightly tilted on your right side. The surgeon will make a 5- to 6-inch (13 to 15 centimeters) cut from the left side of your belly, ending a little below your belly button.
      * Your surgeon will replace the aneurysm with a long tube made of man-made (synthetic) cloth. It is sewn in with stitches.
      * In some cases, the ends of this tube (or graft) will be moved through blood vessels in each groin and attached to those in the leg.
      * Once the surgery is done, your legs will be examined to make sure that there is a pulse. Most often a dye test using x-rays is done to confirm that there is good blood flow to the legs.
      * The cut is closed with sutures or staples. 

Surgery for aortic aneurysm replacement may take 2 to 4 hours. Most people
recover in the intensive care unit (ICU) after the surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Open surgery to repair an AAA is sometimes done as an emergency procedure when
there is bleeding inside your body from the aneurysm.

You may have an AAA that is not causing any symptoms or problems. Your health
care provider may have found the problem after you had an ultrasound or CT
scan done for another reason. There is a risk that this aneurysm may suddenly
break open (rupture) if you do not have surgery to repair it. However, surgery
to repair the aneurysm may also be risky, depending on your overall health.

You and your provider must decide whether the risk of having this surgery is
smaller than the risk for rupture. Surgery is more likely to be suggested if
the aneurysm is:

      * Larger (about 2 inches or 5 cm)
      * Growing more quickly (a little less than 1/4 inch over the last 6 to 12 months) 

## Risks

The risks for this surgery are higher if you have:

      * Heart disease
      * Kidney failure
      * Lung disease
      * Past stroke
      * Other serious medical problems 

Complications are also higher for older people.

Risks for any surgery are:

      * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
      * Breathing problems
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Infection, including in the lungs (pneumonia), urinary tract, and belly
      * Reactions to medicines 

Risks for this surgery are:

      * Bleeding before or after surgery
      * Damage to a nerve, causing pain or numbness in the leg
      * Damage to your intestines or other nearby organs
      * Loss of blood supply to a portion of the large intestine causing delayed bleeding in the stool
      * Infection of the graft
      * Injury to the ureter, the tube that carries urine from your kidneys to your bladder
      * Kidney failure that may be permanent
      * Lower sex drive or inability to get an erection
      * Poor blood supply to your legs, your kidneys, or other organs
      * Spinal cord injury
      * Wound breaks open
      * Wound infections 

## Before the Procedure

Your will have a physical exam and get tests before you have surgery.

Always tell your provider what medicines you are taking, even drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

If you are a smoker, you should stop smoking at least 4 weeks before your
surgery. Your provider can help.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

You will have visits with your provider to make sure medical problems such as
diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart or lung problems are well treated.

      * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and other drugs like these.
      * Ask which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * Always tell your provider if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness before your surgery. 

DO NOT drink anything after midnight the day before your surgery, including
water.

On the day of your surgery:

      * Take the drugs you were told to take with a small sip of water.
      * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

Most people stay in the hospital for 5 to 10 days. During a hospital stay, you
will:

      * Be in the intensive care unit (ICU), where you will be monitored very closely right after surgery. You may need a breathing machine during the first day.
      * Have a urinary catheter.
      * Have a tube that goes through your nose into your stomach to help drain fluids for 1 or 2 days. You will then slowly begin drinking, then eating.
      * Receive medicine to keep your blood thin.
      * Be encouraged to sit on the side of the bed and then walk.
      * Wear special stockings to prevent blood clots in your legs.
      * Be asked to use a breathing machine to help clear your lungs.
      * Receive pain medicine into your veins or into the space that surrounds your spinal cord (epidural). 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery for open surgery to repair an aortic aneurysm may take 2 or 3
months. Most people make a full recovery from this surgery.

Most people who have an aneurysm repaired before it breaks open (ruptures)
have a good outlook.

## Alternative Names

AAA - open; Repair - aortic aneurysm - open

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
      * Getting out of bed after surgery

## References

Lancaster RT, Cambria RP. Open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. In:
Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:899-907.

Tracci MC, Cherry KJ. The aorta. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

Woo EY, Damrauer SM. Abdominal aortic aneurysms: open surgical treatment. In:
Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 71.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

