Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000742.htm    
                                Description: Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a nerve disorder. It causes a stabbing or electric shock-like pain in parts of the face.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trigeminal neuralgia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000742.htm

# Trigeminal neuralgia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a nerve disorder. It causes a stabbing or
electric shock-like pain in parts of the face.

## Causes

The pain of TN comes from the trigeminal nerve. This nerve carries the
sensations of touch and pain from the face, eyes, sinuses, and mouth to the
brain.

Trigeminal neuralgia may be caused by:

      * Multiple sclerosisÂ (MS) or other diseases that damage the protective covering myelinÂ of the nerves
      * Pressure on the trigeminal nerve from a swollen blood vessel or tumor
      * Injury to the trigeminal nerve, such as from trauma to the face or from oral or sinus surgery

Often, no exact cause is found. TN usually affects adults above age 50 years,
but it can occur at any age. Women are affected more often than men. When TN
affects people younger than 40, it is often due to MS or a tumor.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Very painful, sharp electric-like spasms that usually last from several seconds to less than 2 minutes, but can become constant.
      * Pain is usually only on one side of the face, often around the eye, cheek, and lower part of the face.
      * There is usually no loss of sensation or movement of the affected part of the face.
      * Pain may be triggered by touch or sounds.

Painful attacks of trigeminal neuralgia can be triggered by common, everyday
activities, such as:

      * Talking
      * Smiling
      * Brushing teeth
      * Chewing
      * Drinking
      * Eating
      * Exposure to hot or cold temperature
      * Touching the face
      * Shaving
      * Wind
      * Applying make-up

The right side of the face is mostly affected. In some cases, TN goes away on
its own.

## Exams and Tests

A brain and nervous system (neurologic) examination is often normal. Tests
that are done to look for the cause may include:

      * Complete blood count
      * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
      * MRI of the head
      * MRA (angiography) of brain
      * Eye examination (to rule out intraocular disease)  

      * CT scan of head (who cannot undergo MRI)  

      * Trigeminal reflex testing (in rare cases)

## Treatment

Your primary care doctor, a neurologist, or a pain specialist may be involved
in your care.

Certain medicines sometimes help reduce pain and the rate of attacks. These
medicines include:

      * Anti-seizure medicines, such as carbamazepine
      * Muscle relaxants, such as baclofen
      * Tricyclic antidepressants

Short-term pain relief occurs through surgery, but is associated with risk of
complications. One surgery is called microvascular decompression (MVD) or the
Jannetta procedure. During surgery, a sponge-like material is placed between
the nerve and the blood vessel that is pressing on the nerve.

Trigeminal nerve block (injection) with local anesthetic and steroid is an
excellent treatment option to rapidly relieve pain while waiting for medicines
to take effect.

Other techniques involve destroying or cutting parts of the trigeminal nerve
root. Methods used include:

      * Radiofrequency ablation (uses high-frequency heat)
      * Injection of glycerol or alcohol
      * Balloon microcompression
      * Radiosurgery (uses high power energy)

If a tumor is the cause of TN, surgery is done to remove it.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the cause of the problem. If there is no disease
causing the problem, treatment can provide some relief.

In some people, the pain becomes constant and severe.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Side effects of medicines used to treat TN
      * Problems caused by procedures, such as loss of feeling in the treated area
      * Weight loss from not eating to avoid triggering pain
      * Avoiding other people if talking triggers pain
      * Depression, suicide
      * High levels of anxiety during acute attacks

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of TN, or your TN symptoms
get worse.

## Alternative Names

Tic douloureux; Cranial neuralgia; Facial pain - trigeminal; Facial neuralgia;
Trifacial neuralgia; Chronic pain - trigeminal; Microvascular decompression -
trigeminal

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Gonzales TS. Facial Pain and neuromuscular diseases. In: Neville BW, Damm DD,
Allen CM, Chi AC, eds. _Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology_. 4th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Stettler BA. Brain and cranial nerve disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 95.

Waldman SD. Trigeminal neuralgia. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas of Common Pain
Syndromes_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2019:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trigeminal
Neuralgia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrigeminalNeuralgia_thumb.jpg)Trigeminal
Neuralgia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

