Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000733.htm    
                                Description: Tourette syndrome is a condition that causes a person to make repeated, quick movements or sounds that they cannot control.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tourette syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000733.htm

# Tourette syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tourette syndrome is a condition that causes a person to make repeated, quick
movements or sounds that they cannot control.

## Causes

Tourette syndrome is named for Georges Gilles de la Tourette, who first
described this disorder in 1885. The disorder is likely passed down through
families.

The syndrome may be linked to problems in certain areas of the brain. It may
have to do with chemical substances (dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine)
that help nerve cells signal one another.

Tourette syndrome can be either severe or mild. Many people with very mild
tics may not be aware of them and never seek medical help. Far fewer people
have more severe forms of Tourette syndrome.

Tourette syndrome is 4 times as likely to occur in boys as in girls.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Tourette syndrome is often first noticed during childhood, between
ages 7 and 10. Most children with Tourette syndrome also have other medical
problems. These can include attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD),
obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), impulse control disorder, or depression.

The most common first symptom is a tic of the face. Other tics may follow. A
tic is a sudden, fast, repeated movement or sound.

Symptoms of Tourette syndrome can range from tiny, minor movements (such as
grunts, sniffling, or coughing) to constant movements and sounds that cannot
be controlled.

Different types of tics can include:

      * Arm thrusting 
      * Eye blinking 
      * Jumping 
      * Kicking 
      * Repeated throat clearing or sniffing 
      * Shoulder shrugging 

Tics may occur many times a day. They tend to improve or get worse at
different times. The tics may change with time. Symptoms often get worse
before the mid-teen years.

Contrary to popular belief, only a small number of people use curse words or
other inappropriate words or phrases (coprolalia).

Tourette syndrome is different from OCD. People with OCD feel as though they
have to do the behaviors. Sometimes a person can have both Tourette syndrome
and OCD.

Many people with Tourette syndrome can stop doing the tic for periods of
time.Â But they find that the tic is stronger for a few minutes after they
allow it to start again. Often, the tic slows or stops during sleep.

## Exams and Tests

There are no lab tests to diagnose Tourette syndrome.Â A health care providerÂ
will likelyÂ do an examination to rule out other causes of the symptoms.

To be diagnosed with Tourette syndrome, a person must:

      * Have had many motor tics and one or more vocal tics, although these tics may not have occurred at the same time.
      * Have tics that occur many times a day, nearly every day or on and off, for a period of more than 1 year. During this period, there must not have been a tic-free period of more than 3 months in a row.
      * Have started the tics before age 18.
      * Have no other brain problem that could be a likely cause of the symptoms. 

## Treatment

People who have mild symptoms are not treated. This is because the side
effects of the medicines may be worse than the symptoms of Tourette syndrome.

A type of talk therapy (cognitive behavioral therapy) called habit-reversal
may help to suppress tics.

Different medicines are available to treat Tourette syndrome. The exact
medicine that is used depends on the symptoms and any other medical problems.

Ask your provider if deep brain stimulation is an option for you. It is being
evaluated for the main symptoms of Tourette syndrome and the obsessive-
compulsive behaviors. The treatment is not recommended when these symptoms
occur in the same person.

## Support Groups

More information and support for people with Tourette syndrome and their
families can be found at:

      * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/tourette
      * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-Sheets/Tourette-Syndrome-Fact-Sheet
      * Tourette Association of America -- tourette.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms are often worst during the teenage years and then improve in early
adulthood. In some people, symptoms go away entirely for a few years and then
return. In a few people, symptoms do not return at all.

## Possible Complications

Conditions that may occur in people who have Tourette syndrome include:

      * Anger control issues
      * Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
      * Impulsive behavior
      * Obsessive-compulsive disorder
      * Poor social skills

These conditions need to be diagnosed and treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you or child has tics that are
severe or persistent, or if they interfere with daily life.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Gilles de la Tourette syndrome; Tic disorders - Tourette syndrome

## References

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Martinez-Ramirez D, Jimenez-Shahed J, Leckman JF, et al. Efficacy and safety
of deep brain stimulation in Tourette syndrome: The International Tourette
Syndrome Deep Brain Stimulation Public Database and Registry. _JAMA Neurol_.
2018;75(3):353-359. PMID: 29340590Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29340590.

Ryan CA, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Motor disorders and habits. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tourette
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TouretteSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Tourette
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

