Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001581.htm    
                                Description: Apert syndrome is a genetic disease in which the seams between the skull bones close earlier than normal. This affects the shape of the head and face. Children with Apert syndrome often have deformities    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Apert syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001581.htm

# Apert syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Apert syndrome is a genetic disease in which the seams between the skull bones
close earlier than normal. This affects the shape of the head and face.
Children with Apert syndrome often have deformities of the hands and feet as
well.

## Causes

Apert syndrome can be passed down through families (inherited) as an autosomal
dominant trait. This means that only one parent needs to pass on the faulty
gene for a child to have the condition.

Some cases may occur without a known family history.

Apert syndrome is caused by one of two changes to the _FGFR2_ gene. This gene
defect causes some of the bony sutures of the skull to close too early. This
condition is called craniosynostosis.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Early closure of sutures between bones of the skull, noted by ridging along sutures (craniosynostosis)
      * Frequent ear infections
      * Fusion or severe webbing of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th fingers, often called "mitten hands"
      * Hearing loss
      * Large or late-closing soft spot on a baby's skull
      * Possible, slow intellectual development (varies from person to person)
      * Prominent or bulging eyes
      * Severe under-development of the midface
      * Skeletal (limb) abnormalities
      * Short height
      * Webbing or fusion of the toes 

Several other syndromes can lead to a similar appearance of the face and head,
but do not include the severe hand and foot features of Apert syndrome. These
similar syndromes include:

      * Carpenter syndrome (kleeblattschadel, cloverleaf skull deformity)
      * Crouzon disease (craniofacial dysostosis)
      * Pfeiffer syndrome
      * Saethre-Chotzen syndrome 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Hand, foot, and skull
x-rays will be done. Hearing tests should always be performed.

Genetic testing can confirm the diagnosis of Apert syndrome.

## Treatment

Treatment consists of surgery to correct abnormal bone growth of the skull, as
well as for the fusion of the fingers and toes. Children with this disorder
should be examined by a specialized craniofacial surgery team at a children's
medical center.

A hearing specialist should be consulted if there are hearing problems.

## Support Groups

Children's Craniofacial Association: ccakids.org

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a family history of Apert syndrome or you
notice your baby's skull is not developing normally.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be helpful if you have a family history of this
disorder and are planning to become pregnant. Your provider can test your baby
for this disease during pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Acrocephalosyndactyly

## Images

      * ![Syndactyly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1763t.jpg)Syndactyly

## References

Goldstein JA, Losee JE. Pediatric plastic surgery. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire
SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 23.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 609.

Mauck BM, Jobe MT. Congenital anomalies of the hand. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 79.

Robin NH, Falk MJ, Haldeman-Englert CR. FGFR-related craniosynostosis
syndromes. _GeneReviews_. 2011:11. PMID: 20301628
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301628. Updated June 7, 2011. Accessed July 31,
2019.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

