

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cases and Outbreaks of EVD by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cases and Outbreaks of EVD by Country

## 40 Years of Ebola Virus Disease around the World

Ebola virus was first described in 1976 near the Ebola River in what is now
the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Since then, the virus has emerged
periodically and infected people in several African countries. Each of the
known cases and outbreaks of Ebola Virus Disease are described below by year
or country where the case was discovered or imported.

### Cases and Outbreaks of EVD by Year

2018

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE), UGANDA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:   ** _Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:   **ongoing**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **ongoing**

**Situation**

The DRC government declared the outbreak on August 1 in North Kivu province.
Cases have also been reported in Ituri and South Kivu provinces. On June 11,
2019, the Ugandan government confirmed the first case of Ebola in the country
related to the outbreak. Two additional related cases in Uganda were confirmed
the following day. No additional cases have been reported in Uganda since June
12, 2019. CDC is assisting the DRC government, and other countries, and local
and international partners to coordinate activities and provide technical
guidance related to laboratory testing, contact tracing, infection control,
border health screening, data management, risk communication and health
education, vaccination, and logistics.

* * *

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:   ** _Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:   **54**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **33 (61%)**

**Situation**

The DRC government declared the outbreak on May 8 after two cases were
confirmed by laboratory testing at the Institut National de Recherche
Biomedicale in Kinshasa.  CDC assisted the DRC government and local and
international partners, including the World Health Organization (WHO), as they
pursued priority areas of support, including establishing an outbreak response
platform; implementing surge support for deployment of personnel, supplies,
laboratory materials, operational support, logistics, and transportation; and
identifying communication needs to support the partners and the response. On
July 24, 2018, WHO declared the end of the ninth outbreak of Ebola in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.

2017

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **8**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **4 (50%)**

**Situation**

On May 11, 2017, the Ministry of Public Health of the Democratic Republic of
the Congo notified international public health agencies of a cluster of
suspected cases of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in the Likati health zone of the
province of Bas Uele. The first report mentioned eight suspected cases,
including two deaths, with a third death reported on May 12. Testing of
samples was conducted by the Institut National de Recherche Biomedicale (INRB)
in Kinshasa, with two samples testing positive for Ebola Zaire. Teams from
international agencies, including CDC, WHO, MSF (Doctors without Borders), and
others, supported the Ministry of Public Health's epidemiologic, diagnostic,
clinical, and communications efforts to respond to the outbreak. The response
faced challenging logistical obstacles, including the remoteness of the area
and limited services. Mobile diagnostic laboratories provided testing of
samples in the affected areas. Following a period of 42 days since the second
negative laboratory diagnostic test of the last confirmed patient, WHO
declared an end to the outbreak on July 2, 2017.

2014

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **69**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **49 (71%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in multiple villages, but was limited to the Équateur
province in the western part of the country. The Ebola virus variant that
caused this outbreak was closely related to the one that caused the 1995
outbreak in Kikwit, indicating that this outbreak was not related to the large
outbreak happening at the same time in West Africa.1

1 Maganga GD, Kapetshi J., Berthet N, et al. Ebola virus disease in the
Democratic Republic of Congo [PDF - 1.91MB]external icon. _New England Journal
of Medicine_. 2014; 371: 2083-91.

* * *

**GUINEA, LIBERIA, SIERRA LEONE (West African Epidemic)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number cases: **28,610**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **11,308 (39%)**

**Situation**

The West African Ebola epidemic was the largest in history. It started with
cases of EVD in the forested rural region of southeastern Guinea, reported by
WHO on March 23, 2014. Soon, cases were discovered in Liberia and Sierra
Leone, which border Guinea. Identification of cases was difficult because of
weak surveillance and a fragile public health infrastructure. Poor infection
control measures and strained health care systems also contributed to the
devastation of this outbreak. By August 2014, WHO declared the situation a
Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). CDC collaborated
with other U.S. government agencies, Ministries of Health of the affected
countries, WHO, and national and international partners in the intensive
effort to end the epidemic. The outbreak was declared over in June 2016.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

* * *

**ITALY**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths :  **0**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an Italian healthcare worker who had
volunteered in an Ebola Treatment Unit in Sierra Leone developed symptoms of
EVD 72 hours after returning to Rome. The patient had no symptoms while in
flight, so other airline passengers were not at risk. The healthcare workers
treating the patient were adequately protected and carefully monitored. There
were no additional cases in Italy.1

1 World Health Organization.  Ebola Virus Disease - Italy.  Disease Outbreak
Newsexternal icon.  13May2015.

* * *

**MALI**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **8**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **6 (75%)**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an infected traveler from Guinea
brought EVD into Mali. Immediate identification and monitoring of all the
contacts of infected people successfully prevented a broader outbreak.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

* * *

**NIGERIA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **20**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **8 (40%)**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an infected person traveling from
Monrovia, Liberia brought EVD into Lagos, Nigeria. Unprotected responders were
subsequently infected. Fearing a rapid spread within Africa's most populated
city, emergency response efforts focused on quickly establishing an Ebola
Treatment Unit, training caregivers, and identifying all contacts for each
case of EVD.  As a result of this rapid response, the outbreak was confined to
two cities, and additional spread of the Ebola virus through Nigeria and into
other areas in Africa was prevented.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

* * *

**SENEGAL**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of fatal cases:  **0**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an infected traveler brought EVD into
Senegal. Immediate identification and monitoring of all the contacts of the
infected person successfully prevented a broader outbreak and no additional
cases occurred in Senegal.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11

* * *

**SPAIN**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths:  **0**

**Situation**

This was the first case of human-to-human transmission outside of Africa
during the West African Ebola epidemic. A healthcare worker in Spain was
infected with Ebola virus while treating a patient recently evacuated from
Sierra Leone. The patient later died. The healthcare worker was monitored for
signs of EVD and treated in isolation at the start of a fever. Contacts of the
healthcare worker and other hospital staff were also monitored. The healthcare
worker recovered and there were no other cases reported in Spain.1, 2

1 Word Health Organization.  Ebola Virus Disease - Spainexternal icon.  4
October 2014.

2 World Health Organization.  WHO Congratulates Spain on Ending Ebola
Transmissionexternal icon.  2 December 2014.

* * *

**UNITED KINGDOM**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Zaire ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0 (0%)**

**Situation**

During the West Africa epidemic, a healthcare worker returning to the UK after
volunteering in an Ebola treatment center in Sierra Leone became symptomatic
upon arrival in the UK. The case was treated in strict isolation and a range
of public health measures were implemented by UK authorities. This was the
first case of _Zaire ebolavirus_ to be detected in the UK.

World Health Organization. Ebola Virus Disease - United Kingdomexternal icon.
Disease Outbreak News. 30December2014.

* * *

**UNITED STATES**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **4**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1 (25%)**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola outbreak, 11 people were treated for EVD in the
U.S., two of whom died. The majority were infected with the Ebola virus
outside of the U.S. and either medically evacuated into the U.S. for treatment
or entered the country as a regular airline passenger. Two nurses who cared
for a sick Ebola patient contracted EVD, marking the first known transmission
of EVD in the United States. Both recovered. CDC collaborated with U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, and state and
local public health departments to screen travelers returning from Ebola-
affected countries, provide safe transport for patients being assessed for
EVD, and strengthen preparedness and infection control in hospitals.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

2012

**UGANDA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **6***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **3* (50%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in November in the Luwero, Jinja, and Nakasongola
districts. Through a collaboration established in 2010, CDC provided
assistance to the Uganda Ministry of Health and Uganda Virus Research
Institute (UVRI) laboratory throughout the outbreak.1

*  Numbers reflect laboratory confirmed cases only

1 Albarino CG, Shoemaker T, Khristova ML, et al.  Genomic analysis of
filoviruses associated with four viral hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in Uganda
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 2012external icon. _Virology_.
2013;442(2):97-100.

* * *

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Bundibugyo ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **38***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **13* (34%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in the Orientale province in the northeast of the
country. CDC and the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) provided laboratory
support through a field laboratory in Isiro Health Zone, as well as through
the CDC/UVRI (Uganda Virus Research Institute) laboratory in Uganda. This
outbreak in DRC had no epidemiologic link to the Ebola outbreak occurring in
the Kibaale district of Uganda at the same time.

*  Numbers reflect laboratory confirmed cases only

* * *

**UGANDA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **11***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **4* (36%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in June in Kibaale District. Laboratory tests of blood
samples were conducted by Uganda Virus Research Institute (UVRI) and CDC.1

*  Numbers reflect laboratory confirmed cases only

1 Albarino CG, Shoemaker T, Khristova ML, et al.  Genomic analysis of
filoviruses associated with four viral hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in Uganda
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 2012external icon. _Virology_.
2013;442(2):97-100.

2011

**UGANDA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **1 (100%)**

**Situation**

The Uganda Ministry of Health informed the public that a patient with
suspected EVD died on May 6, 2011, in the Luwero district. Quick diagnosis of
Ebola virus from a blood sample was provided by the newly established CDC
Viral Hemorrhagic Fever laboratory at the Uganda Virus Research Institute
(UVRI). Factors that helped stop the spread of the Ebola virus and limit the
size of this outbreak included: 1) a high suspicion of hemorrhagic fever by
clinical staff at the outset, 2) the correct use of personal protective
equipment and barrier methods to protect hospital staff, and 3) the ability to
rapidly confirm Ebola virus through laboratory testing in-country.1

1 Shoemaker T, MacNeil A, Balinandi S, et al. Reemerging Sudan Ebola Virus
Disease in Uganda, 2011. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2012;18(9):1480-1483.

2008

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **32**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **15 (47%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in the Mweka and Luebo health zones in the Kasai
Occidental province. A number of international partners were involved in the
response to this outbreak.1

1 World Health Organization. End of the Ebola Outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congoexternal icon. _Global Alert and Response_. 17 February
2009.

* * *

**PHILIPPINES**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **6 (asymptomatic)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths:  **0**

**Situation**

This was the first known occurrence of Ebola-Reston virus in pigs. The virus
strain was similar to earlier strains. Six workers from a pig farm and
slaughterhouse developed antibodies against the virus, but did not become
sick.1, 2

1 World Health Organization. Ebola Reston in pigs and humans, Philippines pdf
icon[PDF - 240KB]external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_.
2009;84(7):49-50.

2 Barrette RW, Metwally SA, Rowland JM, et al. Discovery of Swine as a Host
for the Reston ebolavirusexternal icon. _Science_. 2009;325;204-206.

2007

**UGANDA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Bundibugyo ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **131**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage fatal cases:  **42 (32%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in the Bundibugyo district. This is the first reported
occurrence of a new Ebola virus strain.  This novel strain appeared similar to
other related viruses. However, the case fatality rate was below 50% in this
outbreak, compared to 80-90% found in earlier outbreaks caused by other Ebola
virus strains, like _Zaire ebolavirus_.1

1 MacNeil A, Farnon EC, Morgan OW, et al. Filovirus Outbreak Detection and
Surveillance: Lessons from Bundibugyo pdf icon[PDF - 203KB] . _Journal of
Infectious Diseases_. 2011;204:S761-S767.

* * *

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **264**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **187 (71%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak was declared in mid-September in Luebo and Mweke health zones in
the Kasai Occidental Province. Radio broadcasts were used to deliver accurate
and timely messages to the local population about EVD spread and prevention.
The last confirmed case was on October 4 and the outbreak was declared over
November 20.1, 2

1  Declaration de son Excellence Monsieur le Ministre de la Sante Publique
annonçant la fin de l'epidemie de FHV a virus Ebola dans les zones de sante de
Mweka, Luebo et Bulape dans la Province du Kasai Occidental pdf icon[PDF-
579KB]. Mardi, le 20 novembre 2007. Dr Victor Makwenge Kaput, Ministre de la
Sante Publique.

2 World Health Organization. Ebola virus haemorrhagic fever, Democratic
Republic of the Congo - Update. pdf icon[PDF -373KB]external icon  _Weekly
Epidemiological Record_. 2007;82(40):345-346.

2005

**Republic of the Congo**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **12**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **10 (83%)**

**Situation**

Two hunters (index patients) died in Etoumbi Medical Center in April 2005. A
response team led by the Ministry of Health was rapidly sent to the site. Most
cases were hunters, patient caretakers, or funeral attendees.

2004

**RUSSIA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1(100%)**

**Situation**

A Russian laboratory worker was injected with the virus accidentally while
working on an Ebola vaccine and later died.1

1 Akinfeyeva LA, Aksyonova OI, Vasilyevich IV, et al. A case of Ebola
hemorrhagic fever. _Infektsionnye Bolezni_ _(Moscow)_. 2005;3(1):85-88
[Russian].

* * *

**SUDAN**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **17**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **7 (41%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in Yambio County at the same time as an outbreak of
measles in the same area. Several suspected cases of EVD were later
reclassified as measles cases.1

1 World Health Organization. Outbreak of Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Yambio,
south Sudan, April-June 2004pdf icon[159 KB, 8 pages]external icon. _Weekly
Epidemiological Record_. 2005;80(43):370-375.

2003

**REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO**

**November - December**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **35**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **29 (83%)**

**Situation**  
The outbreak occurred in Mbomo district in the Cuvette Ouest Departement found
in the western part of the country. Community mobilization activities were
carried out with meetings held specifically for women in local villages, as
they are usually the primary caretaker for patients in their families and
communities.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in the Republic of the
Congo - Update 6external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_. 6 January
2004.

* * *

**REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO**

**January- April**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **    _Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:   **143**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:   **128 (89%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in Mbomo and Kelle districts in the Cuvette Ouest
Departement in the western part of the country. Introduction of the virus into
the population occurred after hunters reported close contact with wildlife
that was killed or found dead. Direct contact with an infected person,
particularly a family member, was the main mode of transmission, with very
little spread of the virus within the healthcare setting.1

 1 Formenty P, Libama F, Epelboin A, et al. Outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic
fever in the Republic of the Congo, 2003: a new strategy? _  Medecine
Tropicale (Marseille)_. 2003;63(3):291-295.

2001

**REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **59**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **44 (75%)**

**Situation**

The first time EVD was reported in the Republic of the Congo. The outbreak
occurred over the border of Gabon and the Republic of the Congo. In the
Republic of the Congo, the affected areas included Mbomo and Kelle districts
in the Cuvette Ouest Departement located in the western part of the country.
The first human cases were associated with hunting and contact with wildlife
in the surrounding area.1

1 World Health Organization. Outbreak(s) of Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Congo
and Gabon, October 2001- July 200 pdf icon[518 KB, 12 pages]external icon.
_Weekly Epidemiological Report_. 2003;78(26):223-225.

* * *

**GABON**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **65**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **53 (81%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred over the border of Gabon and the Republic of the Congo.
In Gabon, the affected areas included La Zadie, Ivindo, and Mpassa districts.
An abnormal amount of animals, mostly nonhuman primates, were found dead in
the area. The first human cases were associated with hunting and contact with
wildlife in the surrounding area.1

1 World Health Organization. Outbreak(s) of Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Congo
and Gabon, October 2001- July 2002pdf icon[518 KB, 12 pages]external icon.
_Weekly Epidemiological Report_. 2003;78(26):223-225.

2000

**UGANDA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **425**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **224 (53%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak started in Gulu and later spread to Masindi and Mbarara
districts. Community action and local government support was critical in
controlling this outbreak. As gleaned from previous epidemics, providing
correct and timely messaging about the disease was important to limit the
spread of harmful rumors.1

1 Okware SI, Omaswa FG, Zaramba S, et al. An outbreak of Ebola in
Ugandaexternal icon. _Tropical Medicine and International Health_.
2002;7(12):1068-1075.

1996

**RUSSIA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1 (100%)**

**Situation**

A Russian laboratory worker was infected with the Ebola virus while working on
an experimental treatment for Ebola.1

1 Borisevich IV, Markin VA, Firsova IV, et al. Hemorrhagic (Marburg, Ebola,
Lassa, and Bolivian) fevers: epidemiology, clinical pictures, and treatment.
_Voprosy Virusologii - Problems of Virology_ (Moscow). 2006;51(5):8-16
[Russian].

* * *

**PHILIPPINES**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was identified in a monkey export facility in the
Philippines. No human infections were identified.1

1 Miranda ME, Ksiazek TG, Retuya TJ, et al. Epidemiology of Ebola (subtype
Reston) virus in the Philippines, 1996external icon.  _Journal of Infectious
Diseases_. 1999;179 (suppl 1):S115-S119.

* * *

**UNITED STATES OF AMERICA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into a quarantine facility in Texas by
monkeys imported from the Philippines. No human infections were identified.1

1 Rollin PE, Williams J, Bressler D, et al. Isolated cases of Ebola (subtype
Reston) virus among quarantined non-human primates recently imported from the
Philippines to the United Statesexternal icon. _Journal of Infectious
Diseases_. 1999;179 (suppl 1):S108-S114.

* * *

**SOUTH AFRICA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **2**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1 (50%)**

**Situation**

A medical professional traveled from Gabon to Johannesburg, South Africa,
after becoming exposed to the virus while treating Ebola-infected patients. He
was hospitalized and recovered. A nurse treating him became infected and
died.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever - South Africa pdf
icon[PDF-469KB]external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_.
1996;71(47):359.

* * *

**GABON**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **60**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **45 (75%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in Booue in the fall. The first case was a hunter living
in a logging camp who spread the virus to others. There were reports of
several dead chimpanzees in the area. Testing of a skin sample obtained from
one of the chimpanzees confirmed the animal was infected with Ebola virus.1

1 Georges AJ, Leroy EM, Renaud AA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in
Gabon, 1994-1997: epidemiologic and health control issues [PDF -299KB]external
icon. _Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S65-75.

* * *

**GABON**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **31**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **21 (68%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in the spring in the village of Mayibout 2, located 0.62
miles (1 Km) from Mayibout 1 near the Ivindo River, about 40 km from the site
of the 1994 outbreak. The body of a dead chimpanzee found in the forest was
consumed by hunters. Eighteen people involved in the butchering of the animal
became ill and other cases occurred in family members.1

1 Georges AJ, Leroy EM, Renaud AA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in
Gabon, 1994-1997: epidemiologic and health control issuesexternal icon.
_Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S65-75.

1995

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **315**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **254 (81%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in Kikwit and surrounding areas, and began with a
charcoal maker in the forested areas near the city. The epidemic spread
through families and hospitals. Transmission in the healthcare setting was
halted almost immediately once proper protective measures were taken, such as
the use of face masks, gloves, and gowns for healthcare personnel.1

1 Khan AS, Tshioko FK, Heymann DL, et al. The Reemergence of Ebola Hemorrhagic
Fever, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1995 [PDF - 361KB]external icon.
_Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S76-S86.

1994

**COTE D 'IVOIRE**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Ta i Forest ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths :  **0**

**Situation**

High mortality in the chimpanzee population in the Tai Forest was reported.  A
scientist became ill after conducting an autopsy on a wild chimpanzee.
Diagnostic testing suggested a new strain of Ebola.  The patient was treated
in Switzerland and recovered.1

1 Le Guenno B, Formenty P, Wyers M, et al. Isolation and partial
characterisation of a new strain of Ebola virusexternal icon. _Lancet_.
1995;345:1271-1274.

* * *

**GABON**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **51**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **31 (61%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in several gold mining villages deep in the rainforest
around Makakou. It was initially believed to be yellow fever, but some of the
characteristics of the outbreak were not typical for yellow fever.  In 1995,
researchers retrospectively discovered that Ebola virus was involved at the
same time.1

1 Georges AJ, Leroy EM, Renaud AA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in
Gabon, 1994-1997: epidemiologic and health control issues [PDF -
299KB]external icon. _Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S65-75.

1992

**ITALY**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **  _Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **0**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into quarantine facilities in Sienna by
monkeys imported from the same export facility in the Philippines that was
involved in the episodes in the United States. People were not infected.1

1 World Health Organization. Viral haemorrhagic fever in imported monkeys
[PDF-799KB]external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_. 1992;67(24):183.

1990

**UNITED STATES OF AMERICA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **  _Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **  4 (asymptomatic)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths: **  0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into quarantine facilities in Virginia and
Texas by monkeys imported from the Philippines. Four people developed
antibodies, but never experienced symptoms of Ebola Virus Disease.1

1 Centers for Disease Control. Update: Filovirus infection in animal handlers.
_Morbidity Mortality Weekly Report_. 1990;39(13):221.

1989

**PHILIPPINES**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **  _Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **  3 (asymptomatic)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths: **  0**

**Situation**

High mortality among Cynomolgus macaques was discovered in a primate facility
responsible for exporting animals to the United States.1 Three workers in the
animal facility developed antibodies, but never experienced symptoms of Ebola
Virus Disease.2

**1** Hayes CG, Burans JP, Ksiazek TG, et al. Outbreak of fatal illness among
captive macaques in the Philippines caused by an Ebola-related filovirus.
_American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene_. 1992;46(6):664-671.

2 Miranda ME, White ME, Dayrit MM, Hayes CG, Ksiazek TG, and Burans JP.
Seroepidemiological study of filovirus related to Ebola in the
Philippineexternal icons.   _Lancet_. 1991;337:425-426.

* * *

**UNITED STATES OF AMERICA**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **0**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number and percentage of deaths among cases:  **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into quarantine facilities in Virginia and
Pennsylvania by monkeys imported from the Philippines.1

1 Jahrling PB, Geisbert TW, Dalgard DW, et al. Preliminary report: isolation
of Ebola virus from monkeys imported to USAexternal icon. Lancet.
1990;335(8688):502-505.

1979

**SUDAN**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **34**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **22 (65%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in the towns of Nzara and Yambio, the same area affected
by the 1976 Sudan epidemic. The index patient in this outbreak worked at the
textile factory implicated as the source of the first outbreak in Sudan.
Absentee and illness records for employees indicated that the factory was not
the source of infection for this outbreak.1

1 Baron RC, McCormick JB, and Zubeir OA. Ebola virus disease in southern
Sudan: hospital dissemination and intrafamilial spread pdf icon[PDF-
864KB]external icon. _Bulletin of the World Health Organization_.
1983;61(6):997-1003

1977

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **1 (100%)**

**Situation**

Case was noted retrospectively in the village of Tandala. This case had no
known connection to the original Ebola outbreak in 1976, suggesting Ebola
virus is enzootic in the area.1

1 Heymann DL, Weisfeld JS, Webb PA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever: Tandala,
Zaire, 1977-1978external icon. Journal of Infectious Diseases.
1980;142(3):372-376.

1976

**UNITED KINGDOM**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **  _Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **  1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths: **  0**

**Situation**

This case was a laboratory infection by accidental inoculation from a
contaminated needle.1

1 Emond RT, Evans B, Bowen ET, et al. A case of Ebola virus infection pdf
icon[PDF - 817KB]external icon. _British Medical Journal_.
1977;2(6086):541-544.

* * *

**SUDAN**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **284**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **151 (53%)**

**Situation**

The outbreak occurred in the towns of Nzara, Maridi, and surrounding areas.
The outbreak is believed to have started with workers in a cotton factory
where 37% of workers in the cloth room were infected. The virus spread mainly
through close personal contact within hospitals. Many healthcare personnel
were infected.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Sudan, 1976.  Report
of a WHO/International Study Team pdf icon[PDF - 5.91MB]external icon.
_Bulletin of the World Health Organization_. 1978;56(2):247-270.

* * *

**DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (formerly ZAIRE)**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **318**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **280 (88%)**

**Situation**

This outbreak was the first recognition of Ebola Virus Disease. It occurred in
the Équateur province, with most cases occurring within 70 km of Yambuku
village. The index case was treated at the Yambuku Mission Hospital with an
injection for possible malaria. Subsequent transmission followed through use
of contaminated needles and syringes at the hospital and clinics in the area
and close personal contact. There were only 38 serologically confirmed
survivors.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Zaire, 1976 pdf
icon[PDF - 3.05MB]external icon. Report of an International Commission.
_Bulletin of the World Health Organization_. 1978;56(2):271-293.

### Cases and Outbreaks of EVD by Country

COTE D'IVOIRE

**1994**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Ta i Forest ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **0**

**Situation**

High mortality in the chimpanzee population in the Tai Forest was reported. A
scientist became ill after conducting an autopsy on a wild chimpanzee.
Diagnostic testing suggested a new strain of Ebola. The patient was treated in
Switzerland and recovered.1

1 Le Guenno B, Formenty P, Wyers M, et al. Isolation and partial
characterisation of a new strain of Ebola virusexternal icon. _Lancet_.
1995;345:1271-1274.

DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (DRC) (formerly Zaire)

**2018**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:   ** _Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:   **ongoing**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **ongoing**

**Situation**

The DRC government declared the outbreak on August 1 in North Kivu province.
Cases have also been reported in Ituri and South Kivu provinces. On June 11,
2019, the Ugandan government confirmed the first case of Ebola in the country
related to the outbreak. Two additional related cases in Uganda were confirmed
the following day. No additional cases have been reported in Uganda since June
12, 2019. CDC is assisting the DRC government and other countries, and local
and international partners to coordinate activities and provide technical
guidance related to laboratory testing, contact tracing, infection control,
border health screening, data management, risk communication and health
education, vaccination, and logistics.

* * *

**2018**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  ** _  Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:   **54**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **33 (61%)**

**Situation**

The DRC government declared the outbreak on May 8 after two cases were
confirmed by laboratory testing at the Institut National de Recherche
Biomedicale in Kinshasa.  CDC assisted the DRC government and local and
international partners, including the World Health Organization (WHO), as they
pursued priority areas of support, including establishing an outbreak response
platform; implementing surge support for deployment of personnel, supplies,
laboratory materials, operational support, logistics, and transportation; and
identifying communication needs to support the partners and the response. On
July 24, 2018, WHO declared the end of the ninth outbreak of Ebola in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.

* * *

**2017**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **8**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **4 (50%)**

**Situation**

On May 11, 2017, the Ministry of Public Health of the Democratic Republic of
the Congo notified international public health agencies of a cluster of
suspected cases of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in the Likati health zone of the
province of Bas Uele. The first report mentioned eight suspected cases,
including two deaths, with a third death reported on May 12. Testing of
samples was conducted by the Institut National de Recherche Biomedicale (INRB)
in Kinshasa, with two samples testing positive for Ebola Zaire. Teams from
international agencies, including CDC, WHO, MSF (Doctors without Borders), and
others, supported the Ministry of Public Health's epidemiologic, diagnostic,
clinical, and communications efforts to respond to the outbreak. The response
faced challenging logistical obstacles, including the remoteness of the area
and limited services. Mobile diagnostic laboratories provided testing of
samples in the affected areas. Following a period of 42 days since the second
negative laboratory diagnostic test of the last confirmed patient, WHO
declared an end to the outbreak on July 2, 2017.

* * *

**2014**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **69**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **49 (71%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in multiple villages, but was limited to the Équateur
province in the western part of the country. The Ebola virus variant that
caused this outbreak was closely related to the one that caused the 1995
outbreak in Kikwit, indicating that this outbreak was not related to the large
outbreak happening at the same time in West Africa.1

1 Maganga GD, Kapetshi J., Berthet N, et al. Ebola virus disease in the
Democratic Republic of Congo [PDF - 1.91MB]external icon. _New England Journal
of Medicine_. 2014; 371: 2083-91.

* * *

**2012**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Bundibugyo ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **38***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **13* (34%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the Orientale province in the northeast of the country.
CDC and the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) provided laboratory support
through a field laboratory in Isiro Health Zone, as well as through the
CDC/UVRI (Uganda Virus Research Institute) laboratory in Uganda. This outbreak
in DRC had no epidemiologic link to the Ebola outbreak occurring in the
Kibaale district of Uganda at the same time.

*  Numbers reflect laboratory confirmed cases only

* * *

**2008-2009**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **  _Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **32**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **  15 (47%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the Mweka and Luebo health zones in the Kasai Occidental
province. A number of international partners were involved in the response to
this outbreak.1

1 World Health Organization. End of the Ebola Outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congoexternal icon. _Global Alert and Response_. 17 February
2009.

* * *

**2007**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **264**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **187 (71%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak was declared in mid-September in Luebo and Mweke health zones in the
Kasai Occidental Province. Radio broadcasts were used to deliver accurate and
timely messages to the local population on EVD spread and prevention. The last
confirmed case was on October 4 and the outbreak was declared over November
20.1

1 Declaration de son Excellence Monsieur le Ministre de la Sante Publique
annonçant la fin de l'epidemie de FHV a virus Ebola dans les zones de sante de
Mweka, Luebo et Bulape dans la Province du Kasai Occidental pdf icon[PDF-
579KB] . Mardi, le 20 novembre 2007. Dr Victor Makwenge Kaput, Ministre de la
Sante Publique.

2 World Health Organization. Ebola virus haemorrhagic fever, Democratic
Republic of the Congo - Update. pdf icon[PDF- 373KB]external icon  _Weekly
Epidemiological Record_. 2007;82(40):345-346.

* * *

**1995**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **315**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **254 (81%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in Kikwit and surrounding areas and began with a charcoal
maker in the forested areas near the city. The epidemic spread through
families and hospitals. Transmission in the healthcare setting was halted
almost immediately once proper protective measures were taken, such as the use
of face masks, gloves and gowns for healthcare personnel, were instituted.1

1 Khan AS, Tshioko FK, Heymann DL, et al. The Reemergence of Ebola Hemorrhagic
Fever, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1995external icon. _Journal of
Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S76-S86.

* * *

**1977**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1 (100%)**

**Situation**

Case was noted retrospectively in the village of Tandala. This case had no
known connection to the original Ebola outbreak in 1976, suggesting Ebola
virus is enzootic in the area. 1

1 Heymann DL, Weisfeld JS, Webb PA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever: Tandala,
Zaire, 1977-1978external icon. _Journal of Infectious Diseases_.
1980;142(3):372-376

* * *

**1976**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **318**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **280 (88%)**

**Situation**

This outbreak was the first recognition of Ebola Virus Disease. It occurred in
the Équateur province, with most cases occurring within 70 km of Yambuku
village. The index case was treated at the Yambuku Mission Hospital with an
injection for possible malaria. Subsequent transmission followed through use
of contaminated needles and syringes at the hospital and clinics in the area
and close personal contact. There were only 38 serologically confirmed
survivors.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Zaire, 1976 pdf
icon[PDF- 3.05MB]external icon. Report of an International Commission.
_Bulletin of the World Health Organization_. 1978;56(2):271-293.

GABON

**2001-2002**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **65**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **53 (81%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred over the border of Gabon and the Republic of the Congo. In
Gabon, the affected areas included La Zadie, Ivindo, and Mpassa districts. An
abnormal amount of animals, mostly nonhuman primates, were found dead in the
area. The first human cases were associated with hunting and contact with
wildlife in the surrounding area.1

1 World Health Organization. Outbreak(s) of Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Congo
and Gabon, October 2001- July 2002pdf icon[518 KB, 12 pages]external icon.
_Weekly Epidemiological Report_. 2003;78(26):223-225.

* * *

**1996-1997**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **60**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **45 (75%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in Booue in the fall. Index patient was a hunter living in a
logging camp. The virus spread by close contact with infected persons. There
were reports of several dead chimpanzees in the area. Testing of a skin sample
obtained from one of the chimpanzees confirmed the animal was infected with
Ebola virus.1

1 Georges AJ, Leroy EM, Renaud AA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in
Gabon, 1994-1997: epidemiologic and health control issues [PDF- 299KB]external
icon. _Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S65-75.

* * *

**1996**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **31**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **21 (68%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the spring in the village of Mayibout 2, located 0.62
miles (1 Km) from Mayibout 1 near the Ivindo River, about 40 km from the site
of the 1994 outbreak. A body of a dead chimpanzee found in the forest was
consumed by hunters. Eighteen people involved in the butchering of the animal
became ill and other cases occurred in family members.1

1 Georges AJ, Leroy EM, Renaud AA, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in
Gabon, 1994-1997: epidemiologic and health control issuesexternal icon.
_Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179:S65-75.

* * *

**1994**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **51**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **31 (61%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in several gold mining villages deep in the rain forest
around Makakou. It was initially believed to be yellow fever, but some
characteristics of the outbreak were not typical for yellow fever. In 1995,
researchers retrospectively discovered Ebola virus was involved at the same
time.1

1 Milleliri JM, Tevi-Benissan C, Baize S, et al. Aspects epidemiologiques et
reflexions sur les mesures de controlepdf iconexternal icon. _Bull Soc Pathol
Exot_ , 2004, 97, 3, 199-205.

GUINEA (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **3811**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **2543 (67%)**

**Situation**

The West African Ebola epidemic, the largest in history, started with cases in
the forested rural region of southeastern Guinea and reported by WHO on March
23, 2014. Soon cases were discovered in Liberia and Sierra Leone (bordering
countries of Guinea). Identification of cases was difficult because of weak
surveillance and a fragile public health infrastructure. Poor infection
control measures and strained health care systems also contributed to the
devastation of this outbreak. By August 2014, WHO declared the situation a
Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). CDC collaborated
with U.S. government agencies, Ministries of Health of affected countries,
WHO, and national and international partners in an intensive effort to end the
epidemic. The outbreak was declared over in June 2016.1

 1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al.  Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

ITALY (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Species:   **_Zaire ebolavirus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Reported number of cases:   **1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Reported number of deaths and percentage of** **fatal cases** :  0

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, a healthcare worker returning to Rome
after volunteering in an Ebola Treatment Unit in Sierra Leone developed EVD
symptoms 72 hours after his return. The patient had no symptoms while in-
flight, so passengers were not at risk. In addition, healthcare workers
treating the patient were protected and carefully monitored. There were no
additional cases in Italy.1

1 World Health Organization.  Ebola Virus Disease - Italy.  Disease Outbreak
Newsexternal icon.  13May2015.

* * *

**1992**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Species:   **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Reported number of cases:   **0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases** :  0

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into quarantine facilities in Sienna by
monkeys imported from the same export facility in the Philippines that was
involved in the episodes in the United States. People were not infected.1

1 World Health Organization. Viral haemorrhagic fever in imported monkeys
[PDF-  
799KB]external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_. 1992;67(24):183.

LIBERIA (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **10,675**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **4809 (45%)**

**Situation**

The West African Ebola epidemic, the largest in history, started with cases in
the forested rural region of southeastern Guinea and reported by WHO on March
23, 2014. Soon cases were discovered in Liberia and Sierra Leone (bordering
countries of Guinea). Identification of cases was difficult because of weak
surveillance and a fragile public health infrastructure. Poor infection
control measures and strained health care systems also contributed to the
devastation of this outbreak. By August 2014, WHO declared the situation a
Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). CDC collaborated
with U.S. government agencies, Ministries of Health of affected countries,
WHO, and national and international partners in an intensive effort to end the
epidemic. The outbreak was declared over in June 2016.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

MALI (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **8**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **6 (75%)**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an infected traveler from Guinea
brought EVD into Mali. Immediate identification and monitoring of all the
contacts of infected people successfully stopped a broader outbreak.1

 1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

NIGERIA (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **20**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **8 (40%)**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an infected person traveling from
Monrovia, Liberia, to Lagos, Nigeria, brought EVD into Nigeria. Unprotected
responders were subsequently infected. Fearing a rapid spread within Africa's
most populated city, emergency response efforts focused on quickly
establishing an Ebola Treatment Unit, training caregivers, and identifying all
contacts for each case of Ebola. As a result of this rapid response, the
outbreak was confined to two cities, and additional spread of the Ebola virus
through Nigeria and into other areas in Africa was prevented.1

 1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al.  Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

PHILIPPINES

**2008**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **6 (asymptomatic)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **  0**

**Situation**

First known occurrence of Ebola-Reston in pigs. Strain was similar to earlier
strains. Six workers from a pig farm and slaughterhouse developed antibodies,
but never experienced symptoms of Ebola Virus Disease.1, 2

1 World Health Organization. Ebola Reston in pigs and humans, Philippines pdf
icon[PDF - 240KB]external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_.
2009;84(7):49-50.

2 Barrette RW, Metwally SA, Rowland JM, et al. Discovery of Swine as a Host
for the Reston ebolavirusexternal icon. _Science_. 2009;325;204-206.

* * *

**1996**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **0**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was identified in a monkey export facility in the
Philippines. No human infections were identified.1

1Miranda ME, Ksiazek TG, Retuya TJ, et al. Epidemiology of Ebola (subtype
Reston) virus in the Philippines, 1996external icon. _Journal of Infectious
Diseases_. 1999;179 (suppl 1):S115-S119.

* * *

**1989-1990**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Reston ebolavirus_ (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **3 (asymptomatic)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **0**

**Situation**

High mortality among Cynomolgus macaques was discovered in a primate facility
responsible for exporting animals to the United States. Three workers in the
animal facility developed antibodies, but did not get sick.1, 2

**1** Hayes CG, Burans JP, Ksiazek TG, et al. Outbreak of fatal illness among
captive macaques in the Philippines caused by an Ebola-related filovirus.
_American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene_. 1992;46(6):664-671.

2 Miranda ME, White ME, Dayrit MM, Hayes CG, Ksiazek TG, and Burans JP.
Seroepidemiological study of filovirus related to Ebola in the
Philippineexternal icons.   _Lancet_. 1991;337:425-426.

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

**2005**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Zaire ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **12**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **10 (83%)**

**Situation**

Two hunters (index patients) died in Etoumbi Medical Center in April 2005. A
response team led by the Ministry of Health was rapidly sent to the site. Most
cases were hunters, patient caretakers, or funeral attendees.

No healthcare providers were infected. Surveillance and contact tracing of 128
contacts was initiated and by July 8, 2005, WHO reported the outbreak over, 42
days after the last case death. One case was laboratory confirmed. All other
cases were considered probable based on clinical signs and epidemiological
links.1

1 Nkoghe D, Kone ML, Yada A, Leroy E. A limited outbreak of Ebola haemorrhagic
fever in Etoumbi, Republic of Congo, 2005.external icon _Transactions of the
Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene_. 2011;105:466-472.

* * *

**2003**

**November - December**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **35**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **29 (83%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in Mbomo district in the Cuvette Ouest Departement located
in the western part of the country. Community mobilization activities were
carried out with meetings held specifically for women in local villages, as
they are usually the primary caretaker for patients in their families and
communities.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in the Republic of the
Congo - Update 6external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_. 6 January
2004.

* * *

**2003**

**January - April**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **143**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **128 (89%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in Mbomo and Kelle districts in the Cuvette Ouest
Departement in the western part of the country. Introduction of the virus into
the population started with hunters reporting close contact with wildlife that
was killed or found dead. Direct contact with an infected person, particularly
a family member, was the main mode of transmission, with very little spread of
the virus within the healthcare setting.1

1 Formenty P, Libama F, Epelboin A, et al. Outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever
in the Republic of the Congo, 2003: a new strategy? _M edecine Tropicale
(Marseille)_. 2003;63(3):291-295.

* * *

**2001**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **59**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **44 (75%)**

**Situation**

The first time EVD was reported in the Republic of the Congo. The outbreak
occurred over the border of Gabon and the Republic of the Congo. In the
Republic of the Congo, the affected areas included Mbomo and Kelle districts
in the Cuvette Ouest Departement located in the western part of the country.
The first human cases were associated with hunting and contact with wildlife
in the surrounding area.1

1 World Health Organization. Outbreak(s) of Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Congo
and Gabon, October 2001- July 200 pdf iconpdf icon[518 KB, 12 pages]external
iconexternal icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Report_. 2003;78(26):223-225.

RUSSIA

**2004**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1(100%)**

**Situation**

A Russian laboratory worker was injected with the virus accidentally while
working on an Ebola vaccine.1

1 Akinfeyeva LA, Aksyonova OI, Vasilyevich IV, et al. A case of Ebola
hemorrhagic fever. _Infektsionnye Bolezni (Moscow)_. 2005;3(1):85-88
[Russian].

* * *

**1996**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1 (100%)**

**Situation**

A Russian laboratory worker was infected with the Ebola virus while working on
an experimental treatment for Ebola.1

1 Borisevich IV, Markin VA, Firsova IV, et al. Hemorrhagic (Marburg, Ebola,
Lassa, and Bolivian) fevers: epidemiology, clinical pictures, and treatment.
_Voprosy Virusologii - Problems of Virology_ (Moscow). 2006;51(5):8-16
[Russian].

SENEGAL (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola epidemic, an infected traveler came with EVD
into Senegal. Immediate identification of contacts prevented additional
cases.1

 1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

SIERRA LEONE (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **14,124**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **3956 (28%)**

**Situation**

The West African Ebola epidemic, the largest in history, started with cases in
the forested rural region of southeastern Guinea and reported by WHO on March
23, 2014. Soon cases were discovered in Liberia and Sierra Leone (bordering
countries of Guinea). Identification of cases was difficult because of weak
surveillance and a fragile public health infrastructure. Poor infection
control measures and strained health care systems also contributed to the
devastation of this outbreak. By August 2014, WHO declared the situation a
Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). CDC collaborated
with U.S. government agencies, Ministries of Health of affected countries,
WHO, and national and international partners in an intensive effort to end the
epidemic. The outbreak was declared over in June 2016.1

 1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

SOUTH AFRICA

**1996**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **  _Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **  2**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **1**

**Situation**

A medical professional traveled from Gabon to Johannesburg, South Africa,
after becoming exposed to the virus while treating Ebola-infected patients. He
was hospitalized and recovered. A nurse treating him became infected and
died.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever - South Africa pdf
icon[PDF-469KB]external icon. _Weekly Epidemiological Record_.
1996;71(47):359.

SPAIN (WEST AFRICAN EPIDEMIC)

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0**

**Situation**

This was the first case of human-to-human transmission occurring outside of
Africa during the West African Ebola epidemic. A healthcare worker in Spain
was infected while treating a patient with EVD recently evacuated from Sierra
Leone. The patient later died. The healthcare worker was monitored for signs
of EVD and treated in isolation at the start of a fever. Contacts of the
healthcare worker and other hospital staff were monitored. The healthcare
worker survived and there were no other cases reported in Spain.1, 2

1 Word Health Organization. Ebola Virus Disease - Spainexternal icon. 4
October 2014.

2 World Health Organization. WHO Congratulates Spain on Ending Ebola
Transmissionexternal icon. 2 December 2014.

SUDAN

**2004**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **17**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **7 (41%)**

**Situation**

This outbreak occurred in Yambio county at the same time as an outbreak of
measles in the same area. Several suspected cases of EVD were later
reclassified as measles cases.1

1 World Health Organization. Outbreak of Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Yambio,
south Sudan, April-June 2004 pdf icon[159 KB, 8 pages]external icon. _Weekly
Epidemiological Record_. 2005;80(43):370-375.

* * *

**1979**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _ **Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **34**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **22 (65%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the towns of Nzara and Yambio, the same area affected by
the 1976 Sudan epidemic. The index patient in this outbreak worked at the
textile factory implicated as the source of the first outbreak in Sudan.
Absentee and illness records for employees indicated that the factory was not
the source of infection for this outbreak.1

1 Baron RC, McCormick JB, and Zubeir OA. Ebola virus disease in southern
Sudan: hospital dissemination and intrafamilial spread. pdf icon[PDF-
864KB]external icon _Bulletin of the World Health Organization_.
1983;61(6):997-1003.

* * *

**1976**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _ **Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **284**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **151 (53%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the towns of Nzara, Maridi, and surrounding areas. The
outbreak is believed to have started with workers in a cotton factory where
37% of workers in the cloth room were infected. The virus spread mainly
through close personal contact within hospitals. Many healthcare personnel
were infected.1

1 World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Sudan , 1976. Report
of a WHO/International Study Team pdf icon[PDF -5.91MB]external icon.
_Bulletin of the World Health Organization_. 1978;56(2):247-270.

UGANDA

**2019**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **Number will be provided when the ongoing outbreak in DRC is declared over.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **Numbers will be provided when the ongoing outbreak in DRC is declared over.**

**Situation**  
The outbreak in DRC is ongoing, putting Uganda at high risk for imported cases
and potential secondary transmission. In 2019, **** Uganda detected and
responded to multiple cases imported from DRC. CDC is assisting the Uganda
government and partners by providing technical assistance related to
laboratory testing, surveillance, infection prevention and control, border
health, risk communication, and vaccination.

* * *

**2012-2013**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **6 ***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **3 * (50%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the Luwero, Jinja, and Nakasongola districts. CDC
assisted the Ministry of Health in the epidemiologic and diagnostic aspects of
the outbreak. Through a collaboration established in 2010, CDC provided
assistance to the Uganda Ministry of Health and Uganda Virus Research
Institute (UVRI) laboratory throughout the outbreak.1

* Numbers reflect laboratory confirmed cases only

1 Albarino CG, Shoemaker T, Khristova ML, et al. Genomic analysis of
filoviruses associated with four viral hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in Uganda
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 2012external icon. _Virology_.
2013;442(2):97-100.

* * *

**2012**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **11 ***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **4 * (36%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in Kibaale District. Laboratory tests of blood samples were
conducted by Uganda Virus Research Institute (UVRI) and CDC.1

* Numbers reflect laboratory confirmed cases only

1 Albarino CG, Shoemaker T, Khristova ML, et al. Genomic analysis of
filoviruses associated with four viral hemorrhagic fever outbreaks in Uganda
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 2012external icon. _Virology_.
2013;442(2):97-100.

* * *

**2011**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **1 (100%)**

**Situation**

Uganda Ministry of Health informed the public that a patient with suspected
Ebola died on May 6, 2011, in the Luwero district. Factors that helped stop
the spread of the Ebola virus and limit the size of this outbreak included: 1)
a high suspicion of hemorrhagic fever by clinical staff at the outset, 2) the
correct use of personal protective equipment and barrier methods to protect
hospital staff, and 3) the ability to rapidly confirm Ebola virus through
laboratory testing in-country.1

1 Shoemaker T, MacNeil A, Balinandi S, et al. Reemerging Sudan Ebola Virus
Disease in Uganda, 2011. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. 2012;18(9):1480-1483.

* * *

**2007-2008**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Bundibugyo ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **131**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **42 (32%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak occurred in the Bundibugyo district. This is the first reported
occurrence of a new Ebola virus strain. This novel strain appeared similar to
other related viruses. However, the case fatality rate was below 50% in this
outbreak, compared to 80-90% found in outbreaks caused by other Ebola virus
strains, like Zaire ebolavirus.1

1 MacNeil A, Farnon EC, Morgan OW, et al. Filovirus Outbreak Detection and
Surveillance: Lessons from Bundibugyo pdf icon[PDF - 203KB] . Journal of
Infectious Diseases. 2011;204:S761-S767.

* * *

**2000-2001**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: _**Sudan ebolavirus**_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **425**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **224 (53%)**

**Situation**

Outbreak started in Gulu and later spread to Masindi and Mbarara districts.
Community action and local government support was critical in controlling this
outbreak. As gleaned from previous epidemics, providing correct and timely
messaging about the disease was important to limit the spread of harmful
rumors.1

1 Okware SI, Omaswa FG, Zaramba S, et al. An outbreak of Ebola in
Ugandaexternal icon. _Tropical Medicine and International Health_.
2002;7(12):1068-1075.

UNITED KINGDOM

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **_Zaire ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0 (0%)**

**Situation**

During the West Africa epidemic, a healthcare worker returning to the UK after
volunteering in an Ebola treatment center in Sierra Leone became symptomatic
upon arrival in the UK. The case was treated in strict isolation and a range
of public health measures were implemented by UK authorities. This was the
first case of _Zaire ebolavirus_ to be detected in the UK.

World Health Organization. Ebola Virus Disease - United Kingdomexternal icon.
Disease Outbreak News. 30December2014.

* * *

**1976**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species:  **_Sudan ebolavirus_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases:  **1**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases:  **0**

**Situation**

Laboratory infection by accidental inoculation from a contaminated needle.1

1 Emond RT, Evans B, Bowen ET, et al. A case of Ebola virus infection pdf
icon[PDF - 217KB]external icon. _British Medical Journal_.
1977;2(6086):541-544.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

**2014-2016**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **Zaire ebolavirus**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **4**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **1**

**Situation**

During the West African Ebola outbreak, 11 people were treated for EVD in the
U.S., two of whom died. The majority were infected with the Ebola virus
outside of the U.S. and either medically evacuated into the U.S. for treatment
or entered the country as a regular airline passenger. In addition, two nurses
who cared for a sick Ebola patient contracted EVD, marking the first known
transmission of EVD in the United States. CDC collaborated with Customs and
Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, and state and local public
health departments to screen travelers returning from Ebola-affected
countries, provide safe transport for patients being assessed for EVD, and
strengthen preparedness and infection control in hospitals.1

1 Bell BP, Damon IK, Jernigan DB et al. Overview, Control Strategies, and
Lessons Learned in the CDC Response to the 2014-2016 Ebola Epidemic.
_Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_. 2016;65(3):4-11.

* * *

**1996**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **Reston ebolavirus (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **0**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into a quarantine facility in Texas by
monkeys imported from the Philippines. No human infections were identified.1

1 Rollin PE, Williams J, Bressler D, et al. Isolated cases of Ebola (subtype
Reston) virus among quarantined non-human primates recently imported from the
Philippines to the United States. _Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 1999;179
(suppl 1):S108-S114.

* * *

**1990**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **Reston ebolavirus (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **4**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into quarantine facilities in Virginia and
Texas by monkeys imported from the Philippines. Four people developed
antibodies, but never experienced symptoms of Ebola Virus Disease.1

1 Centers for Disease Control. Update: Filovirus infection in animal handlers.
_Morbidity Mortality Weekly Report_. 1990;39(13):221.

* * *

**1989**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Species: **Reston ebolavirus (does not cause illness in people)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of cases: **0**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reported number of deaths and percentage of fatal cases: **0**

**Situation**

Ebola-Reston virus was introduced into quarantine facilities in Virginia and
Pennsylvania by monkeys imported from the Philippines.1

1 Jahrling PB, Geisbert TW, Dalgard DW, et al. Preliminary report: isolation
of Ebola virus from monkeys imported to USAexternal icon. _Lance_ t.
1990;335(8688):502-505.

Related Resource

Other Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers Outbreaks

Page last reviewed: October 15, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses next-
generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-initiative-badge-filovirus.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

