Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003312.htm    
                                Description: A metopic ridge is an abnormal shape of the skull. The ridge can be seen on the forehead.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metopic ridge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003312.htm

# Metopic ridge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A metopic ridge is an abnormal shape of the skull. The ridge can be seen on
the forehead.

## Considerations

The skull of an infant is made up of bony plates. The gaps between the plates
allow for growth of the skull. The places where these plates connect are
called sutures or suture lines. They do not fully close until the 2nd or 3rd
year of life.

A metopic ridge occurs when the 2 bony plates in the front part of the skull
join together too early.

The metopic suture remains unclosed throughout life in 1 in 10 people.

## Causes

A birth defect called craniosynostosis is a common cause of metopic ridge. It
can also be associated with other congenital skeletal defects.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice a ridge along your infant's
forehead or a ridge forming on the skull.

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about the child's
medical history.

Tests may include:

      * Head CT scan
      * Skull x-ray

No treatment or surgery is needed for a metopic ridge if it is the only skull
abnormality.

## Images

      * ![Metopic ridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17254t.jpg)Metopic ridge
      * ![The face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1095t.jpg)The face

## References

Argyropoulou MI, Rossi A, Gunny RS, Chong WKK. Paediatric neuroradiology. In:
Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's
Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 82.

Gerety PA, Taylor JA, Bartlett SP. Nonsyndromic craniosynostosis. In:
Rodriguez ED, Losee JE, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3:
Craniofacial, Head and Neck Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 32.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 591.

Spierer A, Wygnanski-Jaffe T. The eye in skeletal disorders. In: Tasman W,
Jaeger EA, eds. _Duane's Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 2013:vol 5;chap 29.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

