Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001607.htm    
                                Description: Pierre Robin sequence (or syndrome) is a condition in which an infant has a smaller than normal lower jaw, a tongue that falls back in the throat, and difficulty breathing. It is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pierre Robin sequence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001607.htm

# Pierre Robin sequence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pierre Robin sequence (or syndrome) is a condition in which an infant has a
smaller than normal lower jaw, a tongue that falls back in the throat, and
difficulty breathing. It is present at birth.

## Causes

The exact causes of Pierre Robin sequence are unknown. It may be part of many
genetic syndromes.

The lower jaw develops slowly before birth, but may grow faster during the
first few years of life.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this condition include:

      * Cleft palate
      * High-arched palate
      * Jaw that is very small with a small chin
      * Jaw that is far back in the throat
      * Repeated ear infections
      * Small opening in the roof of the mouth, whichÂ may cause choking or liquids coming back out through the nose
      * Teeth that appear when the baby is born
      * Tongue that is large compared to the jaw 

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider can often diagnose this condition during a physical
exam. Consulting with a genetic specialist can rule out other problems linked
to this syndrome.

## Treatment

Do NOT put infants with this condition on their back. This is to prevent their
tongue from falling back into their airway.

In moderate cases, the child will need to have a tube placed through the nose
and into the airway to avoid airway blockage. In severe cases, surgery is
needed to prevent a blockage in the upper airway. Some children need surgery
to make a hole in their airway or to move their jaw forward.

Feeding must be done very carefully to avoid choking and breathing liquids
into the airways. The child may need to be fed through a tube to prevent
choking.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on Pierre Robin sequence:

      * FACES: The National Craniofacial Association -- www.faces-cranio.org/Disord/PierreRobin.htm
      * The Cleft Palate Foundation -- www.cleftline.org
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/pierre-robin-sequence

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Choking and feeding problems may go away on their own over the first few years
as the lower jaw grows to a more normal size. There is a high risk for
problems if the child's airways are not kept from getting blocked.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

      * Breathing difficulties, especially when the child sleeps
      * Choking episodes
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Death
      * Feeding difficulties
      * Low blood oxygen and brain damage (due to difficulty breathing)
      * Type of high blood pressure called pulmonary hypertension

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Babies born with this condition are often diagnosed at birth.

Call your provider if your child has choking episodes or breathing problems. A
blockage of the airways may cause a high-pitched noise when the child breathes
in. It can also lead to blueness of the skin (cyanosis).

Also call if your child has other breathing problems.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Treatment may reduce breathing problems and
choking.

## Alternative Names

Pierre Robin syndrome; Pierre Robin complex; Pierre Robin anomaly

## Images

      * ![Infant hard and soft palates](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9039t.jpg)Infant hard and soft palates

## References

Purnell CA, Gosain AK. Pierre Robin sequence. In: Rodriguez ED, Losee JE,
Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume Three: Craniofacial, Head and Neck
Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 36.

Tinanoff N. Syndromes with oral manifestations. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 311.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

