Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001589.htm    
                                Description: Cleidocranial dysostosis is a disorder involving the abnormal development of bones in the skull and collar (clavicle) area. The condition is passed down through families (inherited).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cleidocranial dysostosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001589.htm

# Cleidocranial dysostosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cleidocranial dysostosis is a disorder involving the abnormal development of
bones in the skull and collar (clavicle) area. The condition is passed down
through families (inherited).

## Causes

Cleidocranial dysostosis is caused by an abnormal gene. It is passed down
through families as an autosomal dominant trait. That means you only need to
get the abnormal gene from one parent in order for you to inherit the disease.

Cleidocranial dysostosis is a congenital condition, which means it is present
from before birth. The condition affects girls and boys equally.

## Symptoms

PeopleÂ with cleidocranial dysostosis have a jaw and brow area that sticks
out. The middle of their nose (nasal bridge) is wide.

The collar bones may be missing or abnormally developed. This pushes the
shoulders together in front of the body.

Primary teeth do not fall out at the expected time. Adult teeth may develop
later than normal, and an extra set of adult teeth grow in. This causes the
normal teeth to become crooked.

The condition does not affect a person's intelligence.

Other symptoms can include:

      * Ability to touch shoulders together in front of body
      * Delayed closure of fontanelles ("soft spots")
      * Loose joints
      * Prominent forehead (frontal bossing)
      * Short forearms
      * Short fingers 

## Exams and Tests

There is often a family history of cleidocranial dysostosis. X-rays are most
often taken and may show:

      * Undergrowth of the collarbone 
      * Undergrowth of the shoulder blade
      * Failure of the area in the front of the pelvis bone to close 

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for the bone problems. An oral surgeon should
monitor teeth regularly. An otologist should check for hearing problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The bone symptoms cause few problems in most cases. Appropriate dental care is
important.

## Possible Complications

Complications include dental problems and shoulder dislocations.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have a family history of cleidocranial
dysostosis and are planning to have a child. Also call if you have a child
with similar symptoms.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is appropriate if a person with a family or personal
history of cleidocranial dysostosis is planning to have children.

## References

Herring JA. Skeletal dysplasias. In: Herring JA, ed. _Tachdjian's Pediatric
Orthopaedics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 40.

Horton WA, Hecht JT. Disorders involving transcription factors. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 698.

Lissauer T, Carroll W. Musculoskeletal disorders. In: Lissauer T, Carroll W,
eds. _Illustrated Textbook of Paediatrics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

