Link: https://medlineplus.gov/travelershealth.html    
                                Description: Traveling can increase your chances of getting sick. Learn what you need to do to protect yourself before you take off and during your trip.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Traveler's Health

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/travelershealth.html

#  Traveler's Health

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Traveling can increase your chances of getting sick. A long flight can
increase your risk for deep vein thrombosis. Once you arrive, it takes time to
adjust to the water, food, and air in another place. Water in developing
countries can contain viruses, bacteria, and parasites that cause stomach
upset and diarrhea. Be safe by using only bottled or purified water for
drinking, making ice cubes, and brushing your teeth. If you use tap water,
boil it or use iodine tablets. Food poisoning can also be a risk. Eat only
food that is fully cooked and served hot. Avoid unwashed or unpeeled raw
fruits and vegetables.

If you are traveling out of the country, you might also need vaccinations or
medicines to prevent specific illnesses. Which ones you need will depend on
what part of the world you're visiting, the time of year, your age, overall
health status, and previous immunizations. See your doctor 4 to 6 weeks before
your trip. Most vaccines take time to become effective.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * International Travel: Tips for Staying Healthy (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Staying Healthy While You Travel (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Travelers' Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Air Travel Health Tips (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Food Safety while Hiking, Camping and Boating (Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service) Also in Spanish
    * How to Prevent Medical Emergencies (American College of Emergency Physicians)
    * Staying Healthy on a Cruise (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Summer Travel: Plan Ahead To Stay Healthy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Travelers' Health: Animal Bites and Stings (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Cruise Ship Travel (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Environmental Hazards and Other Noninfectious Health Risks (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Immunocompromised Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Injury and Trauma (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Protection against Mosquitoes, Ticks, and Other Arthropods (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Traveling Safely with Medicines (American Society of Health-System Pharmacists)
    * Your Health Abroad (Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs)

## Specifics

    * CDC's Response to Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Ears and Altitude (Barotrauma) (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * Foot Swelling during Air Travel: A Concern? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * High-Altitude Illness (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Influenza Prevention: Information for Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Jet Lag Disorder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Mosquito Bite Prevention For Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Motion Sickness: First Aid (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Plan for Travel: Before, During and After (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Rabies: What If I Receive Treatment Outside the United States? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Diarrhea (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Zika Travel Information (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Air Travel ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Jet Lag Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Do not violate the International Health Regulations during the COVID-19 outbreak.
    * Article: Infections without borders: a new coronavirus in Wuhan, China.
    * Article: Air travel for global health: flying in the face of sustainable...
    * Traveler's Health -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Travelers' Health: Destinations (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Children

    * Flying and Your Child's Ears (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Travelers' Health: Traveling Safely with Infants and Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Vaccine Recommendations for Infants and Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Women

    * Travelers' Health: Pregnant Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Older Adults

    * Exercise Tips for Travelers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
    * Shots for Safety ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
    * Travelers' Health: Senior Citizens (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Patient Handouts

    * Jet lag prevention (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy and travel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Traveler's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TravelersHealth.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acute mountain sickness
    * Ear - blocked at high altitudes
    * Ear barotrauma
    * Jet lag prevention
    * Jet lag prevention
    * Pregnancy and travel
    * Traveler's diarrhea diet
    * Traveler's guide to avoiding infectious diseases
    * Traveling with children
    * Vacation health care

## Related Health Topics

    * Barotrauma
    * Gastroenteritis
    * Immunization
    * Malaria
    * Motion Sickness
    * Parasitic Diseases
    * Zika Virus

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Traveler 's
Health_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 8 July 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

