Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001656.htm    
                                Description: Noonan syndrome is a disease that can be passed down through families (inherited). It causes many parts of the body to develop abnormally.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Noonan syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001656.htm

# Noonan syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Noonan syndrome is a disease that can be passed down through families
(inherited). It causes many parts of the body to develop abnormally.

## Causes

Noonan syndrome is linked to defects in several genes. In general, certain
proteins involved in growth and development become overactive as a result of
these gene changes.

Noonan syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition. This means only one parent
has to pass down the nonworking gene for the child to have the syndrome.
However, some cases may not be inherited.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Delayed puberty
      * Down-slanting or wide-set eyes
      * Hearing loss (varies)
      * Low-set or abnormally shaped ears
      * Mild intellectual disability (only in about 25% of cases)
      * Sagging eyelids (ptosis)
      * Short stature
      * Small penis
      * Undescended testicles
      * Unusual chest shape (most often a sunken chest called pectus excavatum)
      * Webbed and short-appearing neck 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show signs of
heart problems the infant had from birth. These may include pulmonary stenosis
and atrial septal defect.

Tests depend on the symptoms, but may include:

      * Platelet count
      * Blood clotting factor test
      * ECG, chest x-ray, or echocardiogram
      * Hearing tests
      * Growth hormone levels 

Genetic testing can help diagnose this syndrome.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment. Your provider will suggest treatment to
relieve or manage symptoms. Growth hormone has been used successfully to treat
short height in some people with Noonan syndrome.

## Support Groups

The Noonan Syndrome Foundation is a place where people dealing with this
condition can find information and resources.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Abnormal bleeding or bruising
      * Buildup of fluid in tissues of body (lymphedema, cystic hygroma)
      * Failure to thrive in infants
      * Leukemia and other cancers
      * Low self-esteem
      * Infertility in males if both testes are undescended
      * Problems with the structure of the heart
      * Short height
      * Social problems due to physical symptoms 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition may be found during early infant exams. A geneticist is often
needed to diagnose Noonan syndrome.

## Prevention

Couples with a family history of Noonan syndrome may want to consider genetic
counseling before having children.

## Images

      * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum

## References

Ali O, Donohoue PA. Hypofunction of the testes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 583.

Cooke DW, Divall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

## Review Date 1/10/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

