Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003308.htm    
                                Description: Ridged sutures refer to an overlap of the bony plates of the skull in an infant, with or without early closure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sutures - ridged

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003308.htm

# Sutures - ridged

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ridged sutures refer to an overlap of the bony plates of the skull in an
infant, with or without early closure.

## Considerations

The skull of an infant or young child is made up of bony plates that allow for
growth of the skull. The borders where these plates intersect are called
sutures or suture lines. In an infant only a few minutes old, the pressure
from delivery compresses the head. This makes the bony plates overlap at the
sutures and creates a small ridge.

This is normal in newborns. In the next few days, the head expands and the
overlapping disappears. The edges of the bony plates meet edge-to-edge. This
is the normal position.

Ridging of the suture line can also occur when the bony plates fuse together
too early. When this happens, growth along that suture line stops. Premature
closure generally leads to an unusually shaped skull.

Premature closing of the suture running the length of the skull (sagittal
suture) produces a long, narrow head. Premature closing of the suture that
runs from side-to-side on the skull (coronal suture) leads to a short, wide
head.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Normal ridging due to overlap of bony plates after birth
      * Congenital craniosynostosis
      * Crouzon syndrome
      * Apert syndrome
      * Carpenter syndrome
      * Pfeiffer syndrome 

## Home Care

Home care depends on the condition causing the premature closure of sutures.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

      * You notice a ridge along the suture line of your child's head.
      * You think that your child has an abnormal head shape. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will get a medical history and will do a physical exam.

Medical history questions might include:

      * When did you first notice that the skull seemed to have ridges in it?
      * What do the soft spots (fontanelles) look like?
      * Have the fontanelles closed? At what age did they close?
      * What other symptoms are present?
      * How has your child been developing? 

Your provider will examine the skull to see if there is ridging. If there is
ridging, the child might need x-rays or other types of scans of the skull to
show whether the sutures have closed too early.

Although your provider keeps records from routine checkups, you may find it
helpful to keep your own records of your child's development. Bring these
records to your provider's attention if you notice anything unusual.

## Alternative Names

Ridged sutures

## Images

      * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Head and neck. In: Ball
JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.

Goyal NK. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

