Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001659.htm    
                                Description: Treacher Collins syndrome is a genetic condition that leads to problems with the structure of the face. Most cases are not passed down through families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Treacher Collins syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001659.htm

# Treacher Collins syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Treacher Collins syndrome is a genetic condition that leads to problems with
the structure of the face. Most cases are not passed down through families.

## Causes

Changes to one of three genes, _TCOF1_ , _POLR1C_ , or _POLR1D_ , can lead to
Treacher Collins syndrome. The condition can be passed down through families
(inherited). However, most of the time, there is not another affected family
member.

This condition may vary in severity from generation to generation and from
person to person.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Outer part of the ears are abnormal or almost completely missing
      * Hearing loss
      * Very small jaw (micrognathia)
      * Very large mouth
      * Defect in the lower eyelid (coloboma)
      * Scalp hair that reaches to the cheeks
      * Cleft palate

## Exams and Tests

The child most often will show normal intelligence. An exam of the infant may
reveal a variety of problems, including:

      * Abnormal eye shape
      * Flat cheekbones
      * Cleft palate or lip
      * Small jaw
      * Low-set ears
      * Abnormally formed ears
      * Abnormal ear canal
      * Hearing loss
      * Defects in the eye (coloboma that extends into the lower lid)
      * Decreased eyelashes on the lower eyelid

Genetic tests can help identify gene changes linked to this condition.

## Treatment

Hearing loss is treated to ensure better performance in school.

Being followed by a plastic surgeon is very important, because children with
this condition may need a series of operations to correct birth defects.
Plastic surgery can correct the receding chin and other changes in face
structure.

## Support Groups

FACES: The National Craniofacial Association -- www.faces-cranio.org/home.html

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with this syndrome typically grow to become functioning adults of
normal intelligence.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Feeding difficulty
      * Speaking difficulty
      * Communication problems
      * Vision problems

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is most often seen at birth.

Genetic counseling can help families understand the condition and how to care
for the person.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended if you have a family history of this
syndrome and wish to become pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Mandibulofacial dysostosis; Treacher Collins-Franceschetti syndrome

## References

Dhar V. Syndromes with oral manifestations. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 337.

Katsanis SH, Jabs EW. Treacher Collins syndrome. _GeneReviews_. 2012:8. PMID:
20301704 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301704. Updated September 27, 2018.
Accessed July 31, 2019.

Posnick JC, Tiwana PS, Panchal NH. Treacher Collins syndrome: evaluation and
treatment. In: Fonseca RJ, ed. _Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 3rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

