Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000317.htm    
                                Description: Toxic nodular goiter involves an enlarged thyroid gland. The glandÂ containsÂ areas that have increased in size and formed nodules. One or more of these nodules produce too much thyroid hormone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toxic nodular goiter

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000317.htm

# Toxic nodular goiter

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Toxic nodular goiter involves an enlarged thyroid gland. The glandÂ containsÂ
areas that have increased in size and formed nodules. One or more of these
nodules produce too much thyroid hormone.

## Causes

Toxic nodular goiter starts from an existing simple goiter. It occurs most
often in older adults. Risk factors include being female and over 55 years
old. This disorder is rare in children. Most people who develop it have had a
goiter with nodules for many years.

Sometimes, people with toxic multinodular goiter will develop high thyroid
levels for the first time. This mostly occurs after they take in a large
amount of iodine through a vein (intravenously) or by mouth. The iodine may be
used as contrast for a CT scan or heart catheterization. Taking medicines that
contain iodine, such as amiodarone, may also lead to the disorder. Moving from
a country with iodine deficiency to a country with a lot of iodine in the diet
can also turn a simple goiter into a toxic goiter.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Fatigue
      * Frequent bowel movements
      * Heat intolerance
      * Increased appetite
      * Increased sweating
      * Irregular menstrual period (in women)
      * Muscle cramps
      * Nervousness
      * Restlessness
      * Weight loss

Older adults may have symptoms that are less specific. These may include
weakness and fatigue, palpitations and chest pain or pressure, and changes in
memory and mood.

Toxic nodular goiter does not cause the bulging eyes that can occur with
Graves disease. This is an autoimmune disorder that leads to an overactive
thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism).

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination will show one or many nodules in the thyroid. There may
be a rapid heart rate or a tremor.

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Serum thyroid hormone levels (T3, T4) 
      * Serum TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) 
      * Thyroid uptake and scan or radioactive iodine uptake
      * Thyroid ultrasound

## Treatment

Beta-blockers (propranolol) can control some of the symptoms of
hyperthyroidism until thyroid hormone levels in the body are under control.

Certain drugs can block or change how the thyroid gland uses iodine. These
drugs may be used to control the overactive thyroid gland in any of the
following cases:

      * Before surgery or radioiodine therapy occurs
      * As a long term treatment

Radioiodine therapy may be used. Radioactive iodine is given by mouth. It then
concentrates in the overactive thyroid tissue and causes damage. In rare
cases, thyroid replacement is needed afterward.

Surgery to remove the thyroid may be done when:

      * Very large goiter or a goiter is causing symptoms byÂ making it hard to breathe or swallow
      * Thyroid cancer is present
      * Rapid treatment is needed

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Toxic nodular goiter is mainly a disease of older adults, so other chronic
health problems may affect the outcome of this condition. An older adult may
be less able to tolerate the effect of the disease on the heart. However, the
condition is often treatable with medicines.

## Possible Complications

Heart complications:

      * Heart failure
      * Irregular heartbeat (atrial fibrillation)
      * Rapid heart rate 

Other complications:

      * Bone loss leading to osteoporosis

Thyroid crisis or storm is an acute worsening of hyperthyroidism symptoms. It
may occur with infection or stress. Thyroid crisis may cause:

      * Abdominal pain 
      * Decreased mental alertness 
      * Fever 

People with this condition need to go to the hospital right away.

Complications of having a very large goiter may include difficulty breathing
or swallowing. These complications are due to pressure on the airway passage
(trachea) or esophagus, which lies behind the thyroid.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disorder. Follow the
provider's instructions for follow-up visits.

## Prevention

To prevent toxic nodular goiter, treat hyperthyroidism and simple goiter as
your provider suggests.

## Alternative Names

Toxic multinodular goiter; Plummer disease; Thyrotoxicosis - nodular goiter;
Overactive thyroid - toxic nodular goiter; Hyperthyroidism - toxic nodular
goiter; Toxic multinodular goiter; MNG

## Images

      * ![Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1206t.jpg)Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan
      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Hegedus L, Paschke R, Krohn K, Bonnema SJ. Multinodular goiter. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

Kopp P. Autonomously functioning thyroid nodules and other causes of
thyrotoxicosis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

