Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000293.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove part or all of your thyroid gland. This operation is called thyroidectomy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid gland removal - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000293.htm

# Thyroid gland removal - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove part or all of your thyroid gland. This operation is
called thyroidectomy.

Now that you're going home, follow the surgeon's instructions on how to care
for yourself while you heal.

## When You're in the Hospital

Depending on the reason for the surgery, either all or part of your thyroid
was removed.

You probably spent 1 to 3 days in the hospital.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have a drain with a bulb coming from your incision. This drain removes
any blood or other fluids that might build up in this area.

You may have some pain and soreness in your neck at first, especially when you
swallow. Your voice may be a little hoarse for the first week. You will
probably be able to start your everyday activities in just a few weeks.

If you had thyroid cancer, you may need to have radioactive iodine treatment
soon.

Get plenty of rest when you get home. Keep your head raised while you are
sleeping for the first week.

## Managing Your Pain

Your surgeon may have prescribed a narcotic pain medicine. Or, you may take
over-the-counter pain medicine, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or
acetaminophen (Tylenol). Take your pain medicines as instructed.

You may put a cold compress on your surgical cut for 15 minutes at a time to
ease pain and swelling. DO NOT put the ice directly on your skin. Wrap the
compress or ice in a towel to prevent cold injury to the skin. Keep the area
dry.

## Wound Care

Follow instructions on how to care for your incision.

      * If the incision was covered with skin glue or surgical tape strips, you may shower with soap the day after surgery. Pat the area dry. The tape will fall off after a few weeks.
      * If your incision was closed with stitches, ask your surgeon when you can shower.
      * If you have a drainage bulb, empty it 2 times a day. Keep track of the amount of fluid you empty each time. Your surgeon will tell you when it is time to remove the drain.
      * Change your wound dressing the way your nurse showed you.

## Your Diet During Recovery

You can eat whatever you like after surgery. Try to eat healthy foods. You may
find it hard to swallow at first. If so, it may be easier to drink liquids and
eat soft foods such as pudding, Jello, mashed potatoes, apple sauce, or
yogurt.

Pain medicines can cause constipation. Eating high-fiber foods and drinking
plenty of fluids will help make your stools softer. If this does not help, try
using a fiber product. You can buy this at a drug store.

## Activity

Give yourself time to heal. DO NOT do any strenuous activities, such as heavy
lifting, jogging, or swimming for the first few weeks.

Slowly start your normal activities when you feel ready. DO NOT drive if you
are taking narcotic pain medicines.

Cover your incision with clothing or very strong sunscreen when you are in the
sun for the first year after surgery. This will make your scar show less.

## Thyroid Hormone Replacement

You may need to take thyroid hormone medicine for the rest of your life to
replace your natural thyroid hormone.

You may not need hormone replacement if only part of your thyroid was removed.

See your doctor for regular blood tests and to go over your symptoms. Your
doctor will change the dosage of your hormone medicine based on your blood
tests and symptoms.

You may not start thyroid hormone replacement right away, especially if you
had thyroid cancer.

## Follow-up

You will probably see your surgeon in about 2 weeks after surgery. If you have
stitches or a drain, your surgeon will remove them.

You may need long-term care from an endocrinologist. This is a doctor who
treats problems with glands and hormones.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon or nurse if you have:

      * Increased soreness or pain around your incision
      * Redness or swelling of your incision
      * Bleeding from your incision
      * Fever of 100.5Â°F (38Â°C), or higher
      * Chest pain or discomfort
      * A weak voice
      * Difficulty eating
      * A lot of coughing
      * Numbness or tingling in your face or lips 

## Alternative Names

Total thyroidectomy - discharge; Partial thyroidectomy - discharge;
Thyroidectomy - discharge; Subtotal thyroidectomy - discharge

## References

Lai SY, Mandel SJ, Weber RS. Management of thyroid neoplasms. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 123.

Randolph GW, Clark OH. Principles in thyroid surgery. In: Randolph GW, ed.
_Surgery of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 30.

## Read More

      * Hyperthyroidism
      * Hypothyroidism
      * Simple goiter
      * Thyroid cancer
      * Thyroid gland removal
      * Thyroid nodule

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Thyroid Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

