Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007558.htm    
                                Description: The thyroid gland is normally located at the front of the neck. A retrosternal thyroid refers to the abnormalÂ location of all or part of the thyroid gland below the breastbone (sternum).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retrosternal thyroid surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007558.htm

# Retrosternal thyroid surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The thyroid gland is normally located at the front of the neck. A retrosternal
thyroid refers to the abnormalÂ location of all or part of the thyroid gland
below the breastbone (sternum).

## Description

A retrosternal goiter is always a consideration in people who have a mass
sticking out of the neck. A retrosternal goiter often causes no symptoms for
years. It is often detected when a chest x-ray or CT scan is done for another
reason. Any symptoms are usually due to pressure on nearby structures, such as
the windpipe (trachea) and swallowing tube (esophagus).

Surgery to completely remove the goiter may be recommended, even if you do not
have symptoms.

During the surgery:

      * You receive general anesthesia. This makes you asleep and unable to feel pain.
      * You lie on your back with your neck slightly extended.
      * The surgeon makes a cut (incision) in the front of your lower neck just above the collar bones to determine if the mass can be removed without opening the chest. Most of the time, the surgery can be done this way.
      * If the mass is deep inside the chest, the surgeon makes an incision along the middle of your chest bone. The entire goiter is then removed.
      * A tube may be left in place to drain fluid and blood. It is usually removed in 1 to 2 days. 
      * The incisions are closed with stitches (sutures).

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery is done to completely remove the mass. If it is not removed, it
can put pressure on your trachea and esophagus.

If the retrosternal goiter has been there for a long time, you can have
difficulty in swallowing food, mild pain in the neck area, or shortness of
breath.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of retrosternal thyroid surgery are:

      * Damage to parathyroid glands (small glands near the thyroid) or to their blood supply, resulting in low calcium
      * Damage to the trachea
      * Perforation of the esophagus
      * Vocal cord injury

## Before the Procedure

During the weeks before your surgery:

      * You may need to have tests that show exactly where your thyroid gland is located. This will help the surgeon find the thyroid during surgery. You may have a CT scan, ultrasound, or other imaging tests.
      * You may also need thyroid medicine or iodine treatments 1 to 2 weeks before surgery. 

Tell your provider about all the medicines you take, even those bought without
a prescription. This includes herbs and supplements.

Several days to a week before surgery:

      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood-thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil), naproxen (Aleve), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), among others.
      * Fill any prescriptions for pain medicine and calcium you will need after surgery.
      * Tell your provider about all the medicines you take, even those bought without a prescription. This includes herbs and supplements. Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. 

On the day of surgery:

      * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
      * Take any medicines that your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Be sure to arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You may need to stay in the hospital overnight after surgery so you can be
watched for any bleeding, change in calcium level, or breathing problems.

You may go home the next day if the surgery was done through the neck. If the
chest was opened up, you may stay in hospital for several days.

You will likely be able to get up and walk on the day of or day after surgery.
It should take about 3 to 4 weeks for you to fully recover.

You may have pain after surgery. Ask your provider for instructions on how to
take pain medicines after you go home.

Follow any instructions for taking care of yourself after you go home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome of this surgery is usually excellent. Most people need to take thyroid
hormone pills (thyroid hormone replacement) for the rest of their lives when
the whole gland is removed.

## Alternative Names

Substernalthyroid - surgery; Mediastinal goiter - surgery

## Images

      * ![Retrosternal thyroid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17257t.jpg)Retrosternal thyroid

## References

Kaplan EL, Angelos P, James BC, Nagar S, Grogan RH. Surgery of the thyroid.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 96.

Smith PW, Hanks LR, Salomone LJ, Hanks JB. Thyroid. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 36.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

