Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001178.htm    
                                Description: A simple goiter is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. It is usually not a tumor or cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Simple goiter

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001178.htm

# Simple goiter

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A simple goiter is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. It is usually not a
tumor or cancer.

## Causes

The thyroid gland is an important organ of the endocrine system. It is located
at the front of the neck just above where your collarbones meet. The gland
makes the hormones that control the way every cell in the body uses energy.
This process is called metabolism.

Iodine deficiency is the most common cause of goiter. The body needs iodine to
produce thyroid hormone. If you do not have enough iodine in your diet, the
thyroid gets larger to try and capture all the iodine it can, so it can make
the right amount of thyroid hormone. So, a goiter can be a sign the thyroid is
not able to make enough thyroid hormone. The use of iodized salt in the United
States prevents a lack of iodine in the diet.

Other causes of goiter include:

      * The body's immune system attacking the thyroid gland (autoimmune problem)
      * Certain medicines (lithium, amiodarone)
      * Infections (rare)
      * Cigarette smoking
      * Certain foods (soy, peanuts, vegetables in the broccoli and cabbage family)
      * Toxic nodular goiter, an enlarged thyroid gland that has a small, rounded growth or many growths called nodules, which produce too much thyroid hormone 

Simple goiters are more common in:

      * People over age 40
      * People with a family history of goiter
      * Women 

## Symptoms

The main symptom is an enlarged thyroid gland. The size may range from a
single small nodule to a large mass at the front of the neck.

Some people with a simple goiter may have symptoms of an underactive thyroid
gland.

In rare cases, an enlarged thyroid can put pressure on the windpipe (trachea)
and food tube (esophagus). This can lead to:

      * Breathing difficulties (with very large goiters), especially when lying flat on the back or when reaching up
      * Cough
      * Hoarseness
      * Swallowing difficulties, especially with solid food
      * Pain in the area of the thyroid 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. This involves feeling your
neck as you swallow. Swelling in the area of the thyroid may be felt.

If you have a very large goiter, you may have pressure on your neck veins. As
a result, when the provider asks you to raise your arms above your head, you
may feel dizzy.

Blood tests may be ordered to measure thyroid function:

      * Free thyroxine (T4)
      * Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) 

Tests to look for abnormal and possibly cancerousÂ areas in the thyroid gland
include:

      * Thyroid scan and uptake
      * Ultrasound of the thyroid

If nodules are found on an ultrasound, a biopsy may be needed to check for
thyroid cancer.

## Treatment

A goiter only needs to be treated if it is causing symptoms.

Treatments for an enlarged thyroid include:

      * Thyroid hormone replacement pills if the goiter is due to an underactive thyroid
      * Small doses of Lugol's iodine or potassium iodine solution if the goiter is due to a lack of iodine
      * Radioactive iodine to shrink the gland if the thyroid is producing too much thyroid hormone
      * Surgery (thyroidectomy) to remove all or part of the gland 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A simple goiter may disappear on its own, or may become larger. Over time, the
thyroid gland may stop making enough thyroid hormone. This condition is called
hypothyroidism.

In some cases, a goiter becomes toxic and produces thyroid hormone on its own.
This can cause high levels of thyroid hormone, a condition called
hyperthyroidism.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you experience any swelling in the front of your neck or
any other symptoms of goiter.

## Prevention

Using iodized table salt prevents most simple goiters.

## Alternative Names

Goiter - simple; Endemic goiter; Colloidal goiter; Nontoxic goiter

## Patient Instructions

      * Thyroid gland removal - discharge

## Images

      * ![Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1206t.jpg)Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan
      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

HegedÃ¼s L, Paschke R, Krohn K, Bonnema SJ. Multinodular goiter. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

