Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000400.htm    
                                Description: Thyroid storm is a very rare, but life-threatening condition of the thyroid gland that develops in cases of untreated thyrotoxicosis (hyperthyroidism, or overactive thyroid).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid storm

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000400.htm

# Thyroid storm

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thyroid storm is a very rare, but life-threatening condition of the thyroid
gland that develops in cases of untreated thyrotoxicosis (hyperthyroidism, or
overactive thyroid).

The thyroid gland is located in the neck, just above where your collarbones
meet in the middle.

## Causes

Thyroid storm occurs due to a major stress such as trauma, heart attack, or
infection in people with uncontrolled hyperthyroidism. In rare cases, thyroid
storm can be caused by treatment of hyperthyroidism with radioactive iodine
therapy for Graves disease. This can occur even a week or more after the
radioactive iodine treatment.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are severe and may include any of the following:

      * Agitation
      * Change in alertness (consciousness)
      * Confusion
      * Diarrhea
      * Increased temperature
      * Pounding heart (tachycardia)
      * Restlessness
      * Shaking
      * Sweating

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may suspect thyrotoxic storm based on:

      * A high systolic (top number) blood pressure reading with a lower diastolic (bottom number) blood pressure reading may be low
      * An increased heart rate

Blood tests are done to check thyroid hormones TSH, free T4 and T3.

Other blood tests are done to check heart and kidney functions and to check
for infection.

## Treatment

Thyroid storm is life-threatening and requires emergency treatment. Often, the
person needs to be admitted to the intensive care unit. Treatment includes
supportive measures, such as giving oxygen and fluids in case of difficult
breathing or dehydration. Treatment may include any of the following:

      * Cooling blankets to return the body temperature to normal
      * Monitoring any excess fluid in older people with heart or kidney disease
      * Medicines to manage agitation
      * Vitamins and glucose

The final goal of treatment is to decrease the levels of thyroid hormones in
the blood. Sometimes, iodine is given in high doses to try and stun the
thyroid. Other drugs may be given to lower the hormone level in the blood.
Beta blocker medicines are often given by vein (IV) to slow the heart rate,
lower blood pressure, and block the effects of the thyroid hormone excess.

Antibiotics are given in case of infection.

## Possible Complications

Irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias) may occur. Heart failure and pulmonary
edema can develop rapidly and cause death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This is an emergency condition. Call 911 or another emergency number if you
have hyperthyroidism and experience symptoms of thyroid storm.

## Prevention

To prevent thyroid storm, hyperthyroidism should be treated.

## Alternative Names

Thyrotoxic storm; Thyrotoxic crisis; Hyperthyroid storm; Accelerated
hyperthyroidism; Thyroid crisis; Thyrotoxicosis - thyroid storm

## Images

      * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Marino M, Vitti P, Chiovato L. Graves' disease. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 82.

Thiessen MEW. Thyroid and adrenal disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 120.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

