Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000789.htm    
                                Description: Fibrates are medicines prescribed to help lower high triglyceride levels. Triglycerides are a type of fat in your blood. Fibrates also may help raise your HDL (good) cholesterol.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibrates

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000789.htm

# Fibrates

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibrates are medicines prescribed to help lower high triglyceride levels.
Triglycerides are a type of fat in your blood. Fibrates also may help raise
your HDL (good) cholesterol.

High triglycerides along with low HDL cholesterol increase the risk of heart
disease and stroke.

## How Fibrates Help

Lowering cholesterol and triglycerides can help protect you from heart
disease, heart attack, and stroke.

Statins are thought to be the best drugs to use for people who need medicines
to lower their cholesterol.

Some fibrates may be prescribed along with statins to help lower cholesterol.
However, some studies show that using certain fibrates along with statins may
not help reduce the risk of heart attack or stroke more than using statins
alone.

Fibrates may also be used to help lower very high triglycerides in people at
risk for pancreatitis.

Fibrates are prescribed to adults.

## How to Take Fibrates

Take your medicine as directed. It is generally taken 1 time per day. DO NOT
stop taking your medicine without first talking with your health care
provider.

The medicine comes in liquid-filled capsule or tablet form. DO NOT open
capsules, chew, or crush tablets before taking.

Read the instructions on your medicine label. Some brands should be taken with
food. Others may be taken with, or without food.

Store all of your medicines in a cool, dry place.

Follow a healthy diet while taking fibrates. This includes eating less fat in
your diet. Other ways you can help your heart include:

      * Getting regular exercise
      * Managing stress
      * Quitting smoking 

## Know Your Risks

Before you start taking fibrates, tell your provider if you:

      * Are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. Nursing mothers should not take this medicine.
      * Have allergies
      * Are taking other medicines
      * Plan to have surgery or dental work
      * Have diabetes 

If you have liver, gallbladder, or kidney conditions, you should not take
fibrates.

Tell your provider about all of your medicines, supplements, vitamins, and
herbs. Certain medicines may interact with fibrates. Be sure to tell your
provider before taking any new medicines.

Regular blood tests will help you and your provider:

      * See how well the medicine is working
      * Monitor for side effects, such as liver problems 

## Side Effects

Possible side effects may include:

      * Headache
      * Constipation
      * Diarrhea
      * Dizziness
      * Stomach pain 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you notice:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Muscle pain or tenderness
      * Weakness
      * Yellowing of the skin (jaundice)
      * Skin rash
      * Other new symptoms

## Alternative Names

Antilipemic agent; Fenofibrate (AntaraÂ®, FenoglideÂ®, LipofenÂ®, TricorÂ®,
and TriglideÂ®); Gemfibrozil (LopidÂ®); Fenofibric acid (TrilipixÂ®);
Hyperlipidemia - fibrates; Hardening of the arteries - fibrates; Cholesterol -
fibrates; Hypercholesterolemia - fibrates; Dyslipidemia - fibrates

## References

American Heart Association website. Cholesterol medications.
www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/Cholesterol/PreventionTreatmentofHighCholesterol/Cholesterol-
Medications_UCM_305632_Article.jsp#.Vzt-k_krK70. Updated April 2017. Accessed
February 5, 2018.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 48.

Jones PH, Brinto EA. Fibrates. In: Ballantyne CM, ed. _Clinical Lipidology: A
Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 25.

Stone NJ, Robinson J, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25
Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

US Food and Drug Administration website. FDA drug safety communication: review
update of trilipix (fenofibric acid) and the ACCORD lipid trial.
www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-drug-safety-
communicationreview-update-trilipix-fenofibric-acid-and-accord-lipid-trial.
Updated February 13, 2018. Accessed May 7, 2019.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
05-07-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cholesterol Medicines
      * Triglycerides

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

