Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000397.htm    
                                Description: Familial hypertriglyceridemia is a common disorder passed down through families. It causesÂ a higher-than-normal level of triglycerides (a type of fat) in a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial hypertriglyceridemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000397.htm

# Familial hypertriglyceridemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial hypertriglyceridemia is a common disorder passed down through
families. It causesÂ a higher-than-normal level of triglycerides (a type of
fat) in a person's blood.

## Causes

Familial hypertriglyceridemia is mostly likely caused by genetic defects
combined with environmental factors. As a result, the condition clusters in
families. How severe the disorder is can vary based on sex, age, hormone use,
and dietary factors.

People with this condition also have high levels of very low density
lipoprotein (VLDL). LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol are often low.

In most cases, familial hypertriglyceridemia is not noticeable until puberty
or early adulthood. Obesity, hyperglycemia (high blood glucose levels), and
high levels of insulin are often present as well. These factors may cause even
higher triglyceride levels. Alcohol, a diet high in carbohydrates, and
estrogen use can make the condition worse.

You are more likely to have this condition if you have a family history of
hypertriglyceridemia or heart disease before age 50.

## Symptoms

You may not notice any symptoms. Some people with the condition may have
coronary artery disease at an early age.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
family history and symptoms.

If you have a family history of this condition, you should have blood tests to
check very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and triglyceride levels. Blood tests
most often show a mild to moderate increase in triglycerides (about 200 to 500
mg/dL).

A coronary risk profile may also be done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control conditions that can raise triglyceride
levels. These include obesity, hypothyroidism, and diabetes.

Your provider may tell you not to drink alcohol. Certain birth control pills
can raise triglyceride levels. Talk to your provider about your risk when
deciding whether to take these medicines.

Treatment also involves avoiding excess calories and foods high in saturated
fats and carbohydrates.

![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19492.jpg)

You may need to take medicine if your triglyceride levels stay high even after
making diet changes. Nicotinic acid, gemfibrozil, and fenofibrate have been
shown to lower triglyceride levels in people with this condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Losing weight and keeping diabetes under control helps improve the outcome.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Pancreatitis
      * Coronary artery disease

## Prevention

Screening family members for high triglycerides may detect the disease early.

## Alternative Names

Type IV hyperlipoproteinemia

## Images

      * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19492t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Triglycerides_thumb.jpg)Triglycerides _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

