Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003493.htm    
                                Description: The triglyceride level is a blood test to measure the amount of triglycerides in your blood. Triglycerides are a type of fat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Triglyceride level

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003493.htm

# Triglyceride level

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The triglyceride level is a blood test to measure the amount of triglycerides
in your blood. Triglycerides are a type of fat.

Your body makes some triglycerides. Triglycerides also come from the food you
eat. Extra calories are turned into triglycerides and stored in fat cells for
later use. If you eat more calories than your body needs, your triglyceride
level may be high.

A test for high blood cholesterol levels is a related measurement.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat for 8 to 12 hours before the test.

Alcohol and some medicines can interfere with blood test results.

      * Make sure your health care provider knows what medicines you take, including over-the-counter drugs and supplements.
      * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test. 
      * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/10026.jpg)

## Why the Test is Performed

Triglycerides are usually measured together with other blood fats. Often it is
done to help determine your risk of developing heart disease. A high
triglyceride level may lead to atherosclerosis, which increases your risk for
heart attack and stroke.

A high triglyceride level may also cause swelling of your pancreas (called
pancreatitis).

## Normal Results

Results may indicate:

      * Normal: Less than 150 mg/dL
      * Borderline high: 150 to 199 mg/dL
      * High: 200 to 499 mg/dL
      * Very high: 500 mg/dL or above

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High triglyceride levels may be due to:

      * Cirrhosis or liver damage
      * Diet low in protein and high in carbohydrates
      * Underactive thyroid
      * Nephrotic syndrome (a kidney disorder)
      * Other medicines such as female hormones
      * Poorly controlled diabetes
      * Disorder passed down through families in which there are high amounts of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood

Overall, the treatment of elevated triglyceride levels focuses on increased
exercise and changes in the diet. Drugs to lower triglyceride levels may be
used to prevent pancreatitis for levels above 500 mg/dL.

Low triglyceride levels may be due to:

      * Low fat diet
      * Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid)
      * Malabsorption syndrome (conditions in which the small intestine does not absorb fats well)
      * Malnutrition 

## Considerations

Pregnancy canÂ affect test results.

## Alternative Names

Triacylglycerol test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chen X, Zhou L, Hussain MM. Lipids and dyslipoproteinemia. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al. Treatment of blood cholesterol
to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk in adults: synopsis of
the 2013 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association cholesterol
guideline. _Ann Intern Med_. 2014;160(5):339-343. PMID: 24474185
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24474185.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Triglycerides_thumb.jpg)Triglycerides _Read
more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Triglycerides_thumb.jpg)VLDL Cholesterol
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

