Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001227.htm    
                                Description: Temporomandibular joint and muscle disorders (TMJ disorders) are problems that affect the chewing muscles and joints that connect your lower jaw to your skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

TMJ disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001227.htm

# TMJ disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Temporomandibular joint and muscle disorders (TMJ disorders) are problems that
affect the chewing muscles and joints that connect your lower jaw to your
skull.

## Causes

There are 2 matching temporomandibular joints on each side of your head. They
are located just in front of your ears. The abbreviation "TMJ" refers to the
name of the joint, but it is often used to mean any disorders or symptoms of
this region.

Many TMJ-related symptoms are caused by the effects of physical stress on the
structures around the joint. These structures include:

      * Cartilage disk at the joint
      * Muscles of the jaw, face, and neck
      * Nearby ligaments, blood vessels, and nerves
      * Teeth 

For many people with temporomandibular joint disorders, the cause is unknown.
Some causes given for this condition are not well-proven. They include:

      * A bad bite or orthodontic braces.
      * Stress and tooth grinding. Many people with TMJ problems do not grind their teeth, and many who have been grinding their teeth for a long time do not have problems with their temporomandibular joint. For some people, the stress associated with this disorder may be caused by the pain, as opposed to being the cause of the problem. 

Poor posture can also be an important factor in TMJ symptoms. For example,
holding your head forward while looking at a computer all day strains the
muscles of your face and neck.

Other factors that may make TMJ symptoms worse include stress, poor diet, and
lack of sleep.

Many people end up having "trigger points." These are contracted muscles in
your jaw, head, and neck. Trigger points can refer pain to other areas,
causing a headache, earache, or toothache.

Other possible causes of TMJ-related symptoms include arthritis, fractures,
dislocations, and structural problems present since birth.

## Symptoms

Symptoms associated with TMJ disorders may be:

      * Biting or chewing difficulty or discomfort
      * Clicking, popping, or grating sound when opening or closing the mouth
      * Dull, aching pain in the face
      * Earache
      * Headache
      * Jaw pain or tenderness of the jaw
      * Locking of the jaw
      * Difficulty opening or closing the mouth 

## Exams and Tests

You may need to see more than one medical specialist for your TMJ pain and
symptoms. This may include a primary care provider, a dentist, or an ear,
nose, and throat (ENT) doctor, depending on your symptoms.

You will need a thorough exam that involves:

      * A dental exam to show if you have poor bite alignment
      * Feeling the joint and muscles for tenderness
      * Pressing around the head to locate areas that are sensitive or painful
      * Sliding the teeth from side to side
      * Watching, feeling, and listening to the jaw open and shut
      * X-rays, CT scan, MRI, Doppler test of the TMJ 

Sometimes, the results of the physical exam may appear normal.

Your health care provider will also need to consider other conditions, such as
infections or nerve-related problems and headaches that may be causing your
symptoms.

## Treatment

Simple, gentle therapies are recommended first.

      * Soft diet to calm the joint inflammation.
      * Learn how to gently stretch, relax, or massage the muscles around your jaw. Your primary care provider, dentist, or physical therapist can help you with these.
      * Avoid actions that cause your symptoms, such as yawning, singing, and chewing gum.
      * Try moist heat or cold packs on your face.
      * Learn stress-reducing techniques.
      * Exercise several times each week to help you increase your ability to handle pain.
      * Bite analysis. 

Read as much as you can on how to treat TMJ disorders, as opinion varies
widely. Get the opinions of several providers. The good news is that most
people eventually find something that helps.

Ask your primary care provider or dentist about medicines you can use. These
might include:

      * Short-term use of acetaminophen or ibuprofen, naproxen (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs)
      * Muscle relaxant medicines or antidepressants
      * Muscle relaxant injections like toxin botulinum
      * Rarely, corticosteroid shots in the TMJ to treat inflammation 

Mouth or bite guards, also called splints or appliances, have long been used
to treat teeth grinding, clenching, and TMJ disorders. They may or may not
help.

      * While many people have found them to be useful, the benefits vary widely. The guard may lose its effectiveness over time, or when you stop wearing it. Other people may feel worse pain when they wear one.
      * There are different types of splints. Some fit over the top teeth, while others fit over the bottom teeth.
      * Permanent use of these items may not be recommended. You should also stop if they cause any changes in your bite. 

If conservative treatments do not work, it does not automatically mean you
need more aggressive treatment. Use caution when considering treatment methods
that cannot be reversed, such as orthodontics or surgery that permanently
changes your bite.

Reconstructive surgery of the jaw, or joint replacement, is rarely required.
In fact, the results are often worse than before surgery.

## Support Groups

You can get more information and find support groups through the TMJ Syndrome
Association at www.tmj.org.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For many people, symptoms occur only sometimes and do not last long. They tend
to go away in time with little or no treatment. Most cases can be successfully
treated.

Some cases of pain go away on their own without treatment. TMJ-related pain
may return again in the future. If the cause is nighttime clenching, treatment
can be very tricky because it is a sleeping behavior that is hard to control.

Mouth splints are a common treatment approach for teeth grinding. While some
splints may silence the grinding by providing a flat, even surface, they may
not be as effective at reducing pain or stopping clenching. Splints may work
well in the short-term, but could become less effective over time. Some
splints can also cause bite changes if they are not fitted properly. This may
cause a new problem.

## Possible Complications

TMJ may cause:

      * Chronic face pain
      * Chronic headaches

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider right away if you are having trouble eating or opening your
mouth. Keep in mind that many conditions can cause TMJ symptoms, from
arthritis to whiplash injuries. Experts who are specially trained in facial
pain can help diagnose and treat TMJ.

## Prevention

Many of the home-care steps to treat TMJ problems can also help prevent the
condition. These steps include:

      * Avoid eating hard foods and chewing gum.
      * Learn relaxation techniques to reduce overall stress and muscle tension.
      * Maintain good posture, especially if you work all day at a computer. Pause often to change position, rest your hands and arms, and relieve stressed muscles.
      * Use safety measures to reduce the risk for fractures and dislocations. 

## Alternative Names

TMD; Temporomandibular joint disorders; Temporomandibular muscle disorders

## References

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.

Okeson JP. Temporomandibular disorders. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:474-477.

Rotter BE. Temporomandibular joint disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 91.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Temporomandibular Joint
Dysfunction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TemporomandibularJointDysfunction_thumb.jpg)Temporomandibular
Joint Dysfunction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

