Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000421.htm    
                                Description: A tension headache is pain or discomfort in your head, scalp, or neck. Tension headache is a common type of headache. It can occur at any age, but it is most common in teens and adults.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing tension headaches at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000421.htm

# Managing tension headaches at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tension headache is pain or discomfort in your head, scalp, or neck. Tension
headache is a common type of headache. It can occur at any age, but it is most
common in teens and adults.

A tension headache occurs when neck and scalp muscles become tense, or
contract. The muscle contractions can be a response to stress, depression, a
head injury, or anxiety.

## When You Have a Tension Headache

Hot or cold showers or baths may relieve a headache for some people. You may
also want to rest in a quiet room with a cool cloth on your forehead.

Gently massaging your head and neck muscles may provide relief.

If your headaches are due to stress or anxiety, you may want to learn ways to
relax.

Over-the-counter pain medicine, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen,
may relieve pain. If you are planning to take part in an activity that you
know will trigger a headache, taking pain medicine beforehand may help.

Follow your health care provider's instructions about how to take your
medicines. Rebound headaches are headaches that keep coming back. They can
occur from overuse of pain medicine. If you take pain medicine more than 3
days a week on a regular basis, you can develop rebound headaches.

Be aware that aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) can irritate your stomach.
If you take acetaminophen (Tylenol), DO NOT take more than a total of 4,000 mg
(4 grams) of regular strength or 3,000 mg (3 grams) of extra strength a day to
avoid liver damage.

## Preventing Tension Headaches

Knowing your headache triggers can help you avoid situations that cause your
headaches. A headache diary can help. When you get a headache, write down the
following:

      * Day and time the pain began
      * What you ate and drank over the past 24 hours
      * How much you slept
      * What you were doing and where you were right before the pain started
      * How long the headache lasted and what made it stop

Review your diary with your provider to identify triggers or a pattern to your
headaches. This can help you and your provider create a treatment plan.
Knowing your triggers can help you avoid them.

Lifestyle changes that may help include:

      * Use a different pillow or change sleeping positions.
      * Practice good posture when reading, working, or doing other activities.
      * Exercise and stretch your back, neck, and shoulders often when typing, working on computers, or doing other close-up work.
      * Get more vigorous exercise. This is exercise that gets your heart beating fast. (Check with your provider about what kind of exercise is best for you.)
      * Have your eyes checked. If you have glasses, use them.
      * Learn and practice stress management. Some people find relaxation exercises or meditation helpful.

If your provider prescribes medicines to prevent headaches or help with
stress, follow instructions exactly on how to take them. Tell your provider
about any side effects.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call 911 if:

      * You are experiencing "the worst headache of your life."
      * You have speech, vision, or movement problems or loss of balance, especially if you have not had these symptoms with a headache before.
      * A headache starts suddenly.

Schedule an appointment or call your provider if:

      * Your headache pattern or pain changes.
      * Treatments that once worked no longer help.
      * You have side effects from your medicine.
      * You are pregnant or could become pregnant. Some medicines should not be taken during pregnancy.
      * You need to take pain medicines more than 3 days a week.
      * Your headaches are more severe when lying down.

## Alternative Names

Tension-type headache - self-care; Muscle contraction headache - self-care;
Headache - benign - self-care; Headache - tension- self-care; Chronic
headaches - tension - self-care; Rebound headaches - tension - self-care

## Images

      * ![Tension-type headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19247t.jpg)Tension-type headache
      * ![Headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17204t.jpg)Headache
      * ![CT scan of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19237t.jpg)CT scan of the brain
      * ![Migraine headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18146t.jpg)Migraine headache

## References

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.

Jensen RH. Tension-type headache - the normal and most prevalent headache.
_Headache_. 2018;58(2):339-345. PMID: 28295304
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28295304.

Silberstein SD. Headache management. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk
DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 30.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Headache

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

