Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003024.htm    
                                Description: A headache is pain or discomfort in the head, scalp, or neck. Serious causes of headaches are rare. Most people with headaches can feel much better by making lifestyle changes, learning ways to relax,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Headache

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003024.htm

# Headache

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A headache is pain or discomfort in the head, scalp, or neck. Serious causes
of headaches are rare. Most people with headaches can feel much better by
making lifestyle changes, learning ways to relax, and sometimes by taking
medicines.

## Causes

The most common type of headache is tension headache. It is likely caused by
tight muscles in your shoulders, neck, scalp, and jaw. A tension headache:

      * May be related to stress, depression, anxiety, a head injury, or holding your head and neck in an abnormal position.
      * Tends to be on both sides of your head. It often starts at the back of the head and spreads forward. The pain may feel dull or squeezing, like a tight band or vice. Your shoulders, neck, or jaw may feel tight or sore. 

A migraine headache involves severe pain. It usually occurs with other
symptoms, such as vision changes, sensitivity to sound or light, or nausea.
With a migraine:

      * The pain may be throbbing, pounding, or pulsating. It tends to begin on one side of your head. It may spread to both sides.
      * The headache may be associated with an aura. This is a group of warning symptoms that start before your headache. The pain usually gets worse as you try to move around.
      * Migraines may be triggered by foods, such as chocolate, certain cheeses, or monosodium glutamate (MSG). Caffeine withdrawal, lack of sleep, and alcohol may also be triggers. 

Rebound headaches are headaches that keep coming back. They often occur from
overuse of pain medicines. For this reason, these headaches are also called
medicine overuse headaches. People who take pain medicine more than 3 days a
week on a regular basis can develop this type of headache.

Other types of headaches:

      * Cluster headache is a sharp, very painful headache that occurs daily, sometimes up to several times a day for months. It then goes away for weeks to months. In some people, the headaches never come back. The headache usually lasts less than an hour. It tends to occur at the same times every day.
      * Sinus headache causes pain in the front of the head and face. It is due to swelling in the sinus passages behind the cheeks, nose, and eyes. The pain is worse when you bend forward and when you first wake up in the morning.
      * Headaches may occur if you have a cold, the flu, a fever, or premenstrual syndrome.
      * Headache due to a disorder called temporal arteritis. This is a swollen, inflamed artery that supplies blood to part of the head, temple, and neck area. 

In rare cases, a headache can be a sign of something more serious, such as:

      * Bleeding in the area between the brain and the thin tissue that covers the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage)
      * Blood pressure that is very high
      * Brain infection, such as meningitis or encephalitis, or abscess
      * Brain tumor
      * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus)
      * Buildup of pressure inside the skull that appears to be, but is not a tumor (pseudotumor cerebri)
      * Carbon monoxide poisoning
      * Lack of oxygen during sleep (sleep apnea)
      * Problems with the blood vessels and bleeding in the brain, such as arteriovenous malformation (AVM), brain aneurysm, or stroke

## Home Care

There are things you can do to manage headaches at home, especially migraines
or tension headaches. Try to treat the symptoms right away.

When migraine symptoms begin:

      * Drink water to avoid getting dehydrated, especially if you have vomited.
      * Rest in a quiet, dark room.
      * Place a cool cloth on your head.
      * Use any relaxation techniques you have learned. 

A headache diary can help you identify your headache triggers. When you get a
headache, write down the following:

      * Day and time the pain began
      * What you ate and drank over the past 24 hours
      * How much you slept
      * What you were doing and where you were right before the pain started
      * How long the headache lasted and what made it stop 

Review your diary with your health care provider to identify triggers or a
pattern to your headaches. This can help you and your provider create a
treatment plan. Knowing your triggers can help you avoid them.

Your provider may have already prescribed medicine to treat your type of
headache. If so, take the medicine as instructed.

For tension headaches, try acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen. Talk to your
provider if you are taking pain medicines 3 or more days a week.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Some headaches may be a sign of a more serious illness. Seek medical help
right away for any of the following:

      * This is the first headache you have ever had in your life and it interferes with your daily activities.
      * Your headache comes on suddenly and is explosive or violent.
      * Your headache is "the worst ever," even if you regularly get headaches.
      * You also have slurred speech, a change in vision, problems moving your arms or legs, loss of balance, confusion, or memory loss with your headache.
      * Your headache gets worse over 24 hours.
      * You also have a fever, stiff neck, nausea, and vomiting with your headache.
      * Your headache occurs with a head injury.
      * Your headache is severe and just in one eye, with redness in that eye.
      * You just started getting headaches, especially if you are older than 50.
      * Your headaches are associated with vision problems, pain while chewing, or weight loss.
      * You have a history of cancer or immune system problem (such as HIV/AIDS) and develop a new headache.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and will examine your head, eyes,
ears, nose, throat, neck, and nervous system.

Your provider will ask many questions to learn about your headaches. Diagnosis
is usually based on your history of symptoms.

Tests may include:

      * Blood tests or a lumbar puncture if you may have an infection
      * Head CT scan or MRI if you have any danger signs or you have been having headaches for a while
      * Sinus x-rays
      * CT or MR angiography

## Alternative Names

Pain - head; Rebound headaches; Medication overuse headaches; Medicine overuse
headaches

## Patient Instructions

      * Headache - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
      * ![Headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17204t.jpg)Headache

## References

Digre KB. Headaches and other head pain. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 398.

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.

Hoffman J, May A. Diagnosis, pathophysiology, and management of cluster
headache. _Lancet Neurol_. 2018;17(1):75-83. PMID: 29174963
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29174963.

Jensen RH. Tension-type headache - the normal and most prevalent headache.
_Headache_. 2018;58(2):339-345. PMID: 28295304
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28295304.

Marmura MJ, Silberstein SD, Schwedt TJ. The acute treatment of migraine in
adults: the American Headache Society evidence assessment of migraine
pharmacotherapies. _Headache._ 2015;55(1):3-20. PMID: 25600718
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25600718.

Silberstein SD. Headache management. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk
DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 30.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Headache](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Headache3_thumb.jpg)Headache _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

