Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000797.htm    
                                Description: A tension headache is the most common type of headache. It is pain or discomfort in the head, scalp, or neck, and is often associated with muscle tightness in these areas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tension headache

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000797.htm

# Tension headache

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tension headache is the most common type of headache. It is pain or
discomfort in the head, scalp, or neck, and is often associated with muscle
tightness in these areas.

![Headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17204.jpg)

## Causes

Tension headaches occur when neck and scalp muscles become tense, or contract.
The muscle contractions can be a response to stress, depression, head injury,
or anxiety.

They may occur at any age, but are most common in adults and older teens. It
is slightly more common in women and tends to run in families.

![Tension-type
headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19247.jpg)

Any activity that causes the head to be held in one position for a long time
without moving can cause a headache. Activities may include typing or other
computer work, fine work with the hands, and using a microscope. Sleeping in a
cold room or sleeping with the neck in an abnormal position may also trigger a
tension headache.

Other triggers of tension headaches include:

      * Physical or emotional stress
      * Alcohol use
      * Caffeine (too much or withdrawal)
      * Colds, the flu, or a sinus infection
      * Dental problems such as jaw clenching or teeth grinding
      * Eye strain
      * Excessive smoking
      * Fatigue or overexertion 

Tension headaches can occur when you also have a migraine. Tension headaches
are not associated with brain diseases.

## Symptoms

The headache pain may be described as:

      * Dull, pressure-like (not throbbing)
      * A tight band or vise on the head
      * All over (not just in one point or one side)
      * Worse in the scalp, temples, or back of the neck, and possibly in the shoulders 

The pain may occur once, constantly, or daily. Pain may last for 30 minutes to
7 days. It may be triggered by or get worse with stress, fatigue, noise, or
glare.

There may be difficulty sleeping. Tension headachesÂ usually do not cause
nausea or vomiting.

People with tension headaches try to relieve pain by massaging their scalp,
temples, or the bottom of the neck.

## Exams and Tests

If your headache is mild to moderate, without other symptoms, and responds to
home treatment within a few hours, you may not need further examination or
testing.

With a tension headache, there areÂ usually no problems with the nervous
system. But tender points (trigger points) in the muscles are often found in
the neck and shoulder areas.

## Treatment

The goal is to treat your headache symptoms right away, and to prevent
headaches by avoiding or changing your triggers. A key step in doing this
involves learning to manage your tension headaches at home by:

      * Keeping a headache diary to help you identify your headache triggers so that you and your health care provider can make changes in your lifestyle to reduce the number of headaches you get
      * Learning what to do to relieve a headache when it starts
      * Learning how to take your headache medicines the correct way

Medicines that may relieve a tension headache include:

      * Over-the-counter (OTC) pain medicines, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen
      * Narcotic pain relieversÂ are generally not recommended
      * Muscle relaxers
      * Tricyclic antidepressants to prevent recurrences  

Be aware that:

      * Taking medicines more than 3 days a week may lead to rebound headaches. These are headaches that keep coming back due to overuse of pain medicine.
      * Taking too much acetaminophen can damage your liver.
      * Too much ibuprofen or aspirin can irritate your stomach or damage the kidneys.

If these medicines do not help, talk to your provider about prescription
medicines.

Other treatments that you can discuss with your provider include relaxation or
stress-management training, massage, biofeedback, cognitive behavioral
therapy, or acupuncture.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Tension headaches often respond well to treatment. But if the headaches are
long-term (chronic), they can interfere with life and work.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if:

      * You are experiencing "the worst headache of your life."
      * You have speech, vision, or movement problems or loss of balance, especially if you have not had these symptoms with a headache before.
      * The headache starts very suddenly.
      * The headache occurs with repeated vomiting.
      * You have a high fever.

Also, call your provider if:

      * Your headache patterns or pain change.
      * Treatments that once worked are no longer helpful.
      * You have side effects from medicines, including irregular heartbeat, pale or blue skin, extreme sleepiness, persistent cough, depression, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain, cramps, dry mouth, or extreme thirst.
      * You are pregnant or could become pregnant. Some medicines should not be taken when pregnant.

## Prevention

Learn and practice stress management. Some people find relaxation exercises or
meditation helpful. Biofeedback may help you improve the effect of doing
relaxation exercises, and may be helpful for long-term (chronic) tension
headache.

Tips to prevent tension headaches:

      * Keep warm if the headache is associated with cold.
      * Use a different pillow or change sleeping positions.
      * Practice good posture when reading, working, or doing other activities.
      * Exercise the neck and shoulders frequently when working on computers, or doing other close work.
      * Get plenty of sleep and rest.Â 

Massaging sore muscles may also help.

## Alternative Names

Tension-type headache; Episodic tension-type headache; Muscle contraction
headache; Headache - benign; Headache - tension; Chronic headaches - tension;
Rebound headaches - tension

## Patient Instructions

      * Headache - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

      * ![Headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17204t.jpg)Headache
      * ![Tension-type headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19247t.jpg)Tension-type headache

## References

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.Â

Jensen RH. Tension-type headache - the normal and most prevalent headache.
Headache. 2018;58(2):339-345. PMID: 28295304
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28295304.

Silberstein SD. Headache management. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk
DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 30.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Headache](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Headache3_thumb.jpg)Headache _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

