Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000424.htm    
                                Description: A headache is a pain or discomfort in the head, scalp, or neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Headaches - danger signs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000424.htm

# Headaches - danger signs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A headache is a pain or discomfort in the head, scalp, or neck.

Common types of headaches include tension headaches, migraine or cluster
headaches, sinus headaches, and headaches that begin in your neck. You may
have a mild headache with a cold, the flu, or other viral illnesses when you
also have a low fever.

Most people with headaches feel better by making lifestyle changes, such as
learning ways to relax. Taking certain medicines, such as pain medicine, may
also help.

## Emergency Causes of Headaches

Problems with blood vessels and bleeding in the brain can cause a headache.
These problems include:

      * Abnormal connection between the arteries and veins in the brain that usually forms before birth. This problem is called an arteriovenous malformation, or AVM.
      * Blood flow to part of the brain stops. This is called a stroke.
      * Weakening of the wall of a blood vessel that can break open and bleed into the brain. This is known as a brain aneurysm.
      * Bleeding in the brain. This is called an intracerebral hematoma.
      * Bleeding around the brain. This can be a subarachnoid hemorrhage, a subdural hematoma, or an epidural hematoma. 

Other causes of headaches that should be checked by a health care provider
right away include:

      * Acute hydrocephalus, which results from an interruption of cerebrospinal fluid flow.
      * Blood pressure that is very high.
      * Brain tumor.
      * Brain swelling (brain edema) from altitude sickness, carbon monoxide poisoning, or acute brain injury.
      * Buildup of pressure inside the skull that appears to be, but is not, a tumor (pseudotumor cerebri).Â Â 
      * Infection in the brain or the tissue that surrounds the brain, as well as a brain abscess.
      * Swollen, inflamed artery that supplies blood to part of the head, temple, and neck area (temporal arteritis). 

## When to Call the Doctor

If you cannot see your provider right away, go to the emergency room or call
911 if:

      * This is the first severe headache you have ever had in your life and it interferes with your daily activities.
      * You develop a headache right after activities such as weightlifting, aerobics, jogging, or sex.
      * Your headache comes on suddenly and is explosive or violent.
      * Your headache is "the worst ever," even if you regularly get headaches.
      * You also have slurred speech, a change in vision, problems moving your arms or legs, loss of balance, confusion, or memory loss with your headache.
      * Your headache gets worse over 24 hours.
      * You also have fever, stiff neck, nausea, and vomiting with your headache.
      * Your headache occurs with a head injury.
      * Your headache is severe and just inÂ one eye, with redness in that eye.
      * You just started getting headaches, especially if your are older than 50.
      * You have headaches along with vision problems and pain while chewing, or weight loss.
      * You have a history of cancer and develop a new headache.
      * Your immune system is weakened by disease (such as HIV infection) or by medicines (such as chemotherapy drugs and steroids). 

See your provider soon if:

      * Your headaches wake you up from sleep.
      * A headache lasts more than a few days.
      * Headaches are worse in the morning.
      * You have a history of headaches but they have changed in pattern or intensity .
      * You have headaches often and there is no known cause. 

## Alternative Names

Migraine headache - danger signs; Tension headache - danger signs; Cluster
headache - danger signs; Vascular headache - danger signs

## Images

      * ![Headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17204t.jpg)Headache
      * ![Tension-type headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19247t.jpg)Tension-type headache
      * ![CT scan of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19237t.jpg)CT scan of the brain
      * ![Migraine headache](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18146t.jpg)Migraine headache

## References

Digre KB. Headaches and other head pain. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 398.

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.

Kelly A-M. Neurology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livinstone; 2015:Section 8.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Headache

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

