Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000946.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove part or all of your toenails. This was done to relieve pain and discomfort due to an ingrown toenail. Ingrown toenails can occur when the edge of your toenail grows into the skin    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ingrown toenail removal â discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000946.htm

# Ingrown toenail removal â discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove part or all of your toenails. This was done to
relieve pain and discomfort due to an ingrown toenail. Ingrown toenails can
occur when the edge of your toenail grows into the skin of the toe.

After you go home, follow your health care provider's instructions on how to
take care of the toe. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

The provider numbed your toe with a local anesthesia before the procedure
started. The provider then cut the part of the nail that grew into the skin of
the toe. Either part of the nail or the entire nail was removed.

The surgery took an hour or less and your provider has covered the wound with
a bandage. You can go home the same day.

## What to Expect at Home

You may feel pain once the pain-numbing medicine wears off. Take the pain
reliever your provider recommends.

You may notice:

      * Some swelling in your foot 
      * Light bleeding
      * Yellow clear discharge from the wound

At home you should:

      * Keep your feet raised above the level of your heart to reduce swelling
      * Rest your foot and avoid moving it
      * Keep your wound clean and dry

## Dressing

Change the dressing about 12 to 24 hours after the surgery. Follow your
provider's instructions for changing the dressing. Your provider may recommend
soaking your foot in warm water before removing the dressing. This helps the
bandage to not stick to the wound.

In the following days, change the dressing once or twice a day or as suggested
by your provider.

Keep your wound covered both day and night in the first week. You can let your
toe remain uncovered at night in the second week. This helps the wound heal.

## Foot Bath

Soak your feet 2 to 3 times a day in the bath containing:

      * Epsom salts - to relieve swelling and inflammation
      * Betadine - an antibiotic to help reduce the risk for infection 

Dry your feet and apply antibiotic ointment if recommended. Dress the wound to
keep it clean.

## Activity

Try to reduce activity and rest your foot. Avoid bumping your toe or putting a
lot of pressure on it. You may want to wear open-toed shoes. If wearing closed
shoes, make sure they are not too tight. Wear cotton socks.

You may need to do this for about 2 weeks.

You can likely resume your normal activities within a week. Getting back to
sports may take a little longer.

## Prevention

The toenail may grow inward again. To prevent this, follow these tips:

      * Don't wear tight-fitting shoes or high heels
      * Don't trim your nails too short or round the corners
      * Don't pick or tear at the corners of the nails 

## When to Call the Doctor

See your provider again in 2 to 3 days or as recommended.

Call your provider if you notice:

      * Your toenail is not healing
      * Fever or chills
      * Pain, even after taking pain-relief medicine
      * Bleeding from the toenail
      * Pus from the toenail
      * Swelling or redness of the toe or foot
      * Regrowth of the nail into the skin of the toe 

## Alternative Names

Onychocryptosis surgery; Onychomycosis; Unguis incarnates surgery; Ingrown
toenail removal; Toenail ingrowth

## References

McGee DL. Podiatric procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds.
_Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 51.

Richert B, Rich P. Nail surgery. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 149.

## Review Date 10/10/2018

Updated by: Thomas N. Joseph, MD, private practice specializing in
orthopaedics, subspecialty foot and ankle, Camden Bone and Joint, Camden, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nail Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

