Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001237.htm    
                                Description: An ingrown toenail occurs when the edge of the nail grows into the skin of the toe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ingrown toenail

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001237.htm

# Ingrown toenail

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An ingrown toenail occurs when the edge of the nail grows into the skin of the
toe.

## Causes

An ingrown toenail can result from a number of things. Poorly fitting shoes
and toenails that are not properly trimmed are the most common causes. The
skin along the edge of a toenail may become red and infected. The great toe is
affected most often, but any toenail can become ingrown.

An ingrown toenail may occur when extra pressure is placed on your toe. This
pressure is caused by shoes that are too tight or fit poorly. If you walk
often or play sports, a shoe that is even a little tight can cause this
problem. Deformities of the foot or toes can also place extra pressure on the
toe.

Nails that are not trimmed properly can also cause ingrown toenails:

      * Toenails that are trimmed too short, or if the edges are rounded rather than cut straight across may cause the nail to curl and grow into the skin.
      * Poor eyesight, inability to reach the toes easily, or having thick nails can make it hard to properly trim nails.
      * Picking or tearing at the corners of the nails can also cause an ingrown toenail.

Some people are born with nails that are curved and grow into the skin. Others
have toenails that are too large for their toes. Stubbing your toe or other
injuries can also lead to an ingrown toenail.

## Symptoms

There may be pain, redness and swelling around the nail.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your toenail and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests or x-rays aren't usually needed.

## Treatment

If you have diabetes, nerve problem in the leg or foot, poor blood circulation
to your foot, or an infection around the nail, see a provider right away.
Don't try to treat an ingrown nail at home.

Otherwise, to treat an ingrown nail at home:

      * Soak the foot in warm water 3 to 4 times a day if possible. After soaking, keep the toe dry.
      * Gently massage over the inflamed skin.
      * Place a small piece of cotton or dental floss under the nail. Wet the cotton or floss with water or antiseptic. 

When trimming your toenails:

      * Briefly soak your foot in warm water to soften the nails.
      * Use a clean, sharp trimmer.
      * Trim toenails straight across the top. Do not taper or round the corners or trim too short.Â 
      * Do not try to cut out the ingrown portion of the nail yourself. This will only make the problem worse. 

Consider wearing sandals until the problem goes away. Over-the-counter
medicine that is applied to the ingrown toenail may help with the pain, but it
does not treat the problem.

If this doesn't work and the ingrown nail gets worse, see your family doctor,
a foot specialist (podiatrist), or a skin specialist (dermatologist).

If the ingrown nail doesn't heal or keeps coming back, your provider may
remove part of the nail:

      * Numbing medicine is first injected into the toe.
      * The ingrown part of the nail is removed. This procedure is called a partial nail avulsion.
      * It takes 2 to 4 months for the nail to regrow. 

If the toe is infected, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics.

After the procedure, follow any instructions for helping your nail heal.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment usually controls the infection and relieves pain. The condition is
likely to return if you don't practice good foot care.

This condition may become serious in people with diabetes, poor blood
circulation, and nerve problems.

## Possible Complications

In severe cases, the infectionÂ can spread through the toe and into the bone.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

      * Are not able to treat an ingrown toenail at home
      * Have severe pain, redness, swelling, or fever
      * Have diabetes, nerve damage in the leg or foot, poor circulation to your foot, or an infection around the nail 

## Prevention

Wear shoes that fit properly. Shoes that you wear every day should have plenty
of room around your toes. Shoes that you wear for walking briskly or for
playing sports should also have plenty of room, but not be too loose.

When trimming your toenails:

      * Briefly soak your foot in warm water to soften the nail.
      * Use a clean, sharp nail trimmer.
      * Trim toenails straight across the top. Do not taper or round the corners or trim too short.
      * Do not pick or tear at the nails. 

Keep your feet clean and dry. People with diabetes should have routine foot
exams and nail care.

## Alternative Names

Onychocryptosis; Unguis incarnates; Surgical nail avulsion; Matrix excision;
Ingrown toenail removal

## Images

      * ![Ingrown toenail](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9471t.jpg)Ingrown toenail

## References

Habif TP. Nail diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
25.

Ishikawa SN. Disorders of nails and skin. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST,
eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 87.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Nail disorders. In: Marks JG, Miller JJ, eds.
_Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nail Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NailDiseases_thumb.jpg)Nail
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

