Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000800.htm    
                                Description: A nail injury occurs when any part of your nail becomes injured. This includes the nail, nail bed (skin underneath the nail), cuticle (base of the nail), and the skin around the sides of the nail.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nail injuries

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000800.htm

# Nail injuries

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nail injury occurs when any part of your nail becomes injured. This includes
the nail, nail bed (skin underneath the nail), cuticle (base of the nail), and
the skin around the sides of the nail.

An injury occurs when the nail is cut, torn, smashed, or bruised, or the nail
is torn away from the skin.

## More About Nail Injuries

Smashing your finger in a door, hitting it with a hammer or other heavy
object, or cutting it with a knife or other sharp object can cause a nail
injury.

Depending on the type of injury, you may notice:

      * Bleeding underneath the nail (subungual hematoma)
      * Throbbing pain
      * Bleeding on or around the nail
      * Cuts or tears to the nail, cuticle, or other skin around the nail (nail lacerations)
      * The nail pulling away from the nail bed partly or completely (nail avulsion)

Treatment depends on the type and seriousness of the injury.

## Self-care

You may be able to care for a nail injury at home if you can stop the bleeding
quickly and:

      * The nail is not cut or torn and is still attached to the nail bed
      * You have a nail bruise that is less than one fourth the size of your nail
      * Your finger or toe is not bent or misshapen 

To care for your nail injury:

      * Remove all jewelry from your hand. Apply soap, if needed, to help rings slip off your fingers. If you cannot remove a ring because your finger is swollen, call your health care provider.
      * Gently wash any minor cuts or scrapes.
      * Apply a bandage if needed. 

## Treatment

For more serious nail injuries, you should go to an urgent care center or the
emergency room. They will stop the bleeding and clean the wound. Usually, the
nail and finger or toe will be numbed with medicine before it is treated.

Nail bed injuries:

      * For a larger bruise, your provider will create a small hole in the nail.
      * This will allow fluid to drain out and relieve the pressure and pain.
      * If the bone is broken or the bruise is very large, the nail may need to be removed and the nail bed repaired. 

Nail lacerations or avulsions:

      * Part or all of the nail may be removed.
      * Cuts in the nail bed will be closed with stitches.
      * The nail will be reattached with a special glue or stitches.
      * If the nail cannot be reattached, your provider may replace it with a special type of material. This will remain on the nail bed as it heals.
      * Your provider may prescribe antibiotics to prevent infection. 

If you have a broken bone, your provider may need to place a wire in your
finger to keep the bone in place.

## Pain Management

You should:

      * Apply ice for 20 minutes every 2 hours on the first day, then 3 to 4 times a day after that.
      * To reduce the throbbing, keep your hand or foot above the level of your heart. 

Take prescription pain relievers as directed. Or you can use ibuprofen or
naproxen to reduce pain and swelling. Acetaminophen helps with pain, but not
swelling. You can buy these pain medicines without a prescription.

      * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Wound Management

You should:

      * Follow your provider's recommendations to care for your wound.
      * If you have an artificial nail, it should stay in place until your nail bed heals.
      * If your provider recommends it, change the dressing every day.
      * If your provider says it is OK, you can apply a small amount of antibiotic ointment to keep the dressing from sticking.
      * You may be given a splint or special shoe to help protect your nail and finger or toe as they heal.
      * Often, a new nail will grow in and replace the old nail, pushing it off as it grows. 

## Getting Active Again

If you lose your nail, it will take about 7 to 10 days for the nail bed to
heal. A new fingernail will take about 4 to 6 months to grow to replace the
lost nail. Toenails take about 12 months to grow back.

The new nail will probably have grooves or ridges and be somewhat misshapen.
This may be permanent.

If you broke a bone in your finger or toe along with the nail injury, it will
take about 4 weeks to heal.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Redness, pain, or swelling increases
      * Pus (yellow or white fluid) drains from the wound
      * You have a fever
      * You have bleeding that does not stop 

## Alternative Names

Nail laceration; Nail avulsion; Nail bed injury; Subungual hematoma

## References

Dautel G. Nail trauma. In: Merle M, Dautel G, eds. _Emergency Surgery of the
Hand_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Masson SAS; 2017:chap 13.

Stearns DA, Peak DA. Hand. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

## Review Date 9/16/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Nail Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

