Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002425.htm    
                                Description: A food jag is when a child will only eatÂ one food item, or a very small group of food items, meal after meal. Some other common childhood eating behaviors that can concern parents include fear of new foods    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food jags

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002425.htm

# Food jags

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A food jag is when a child will only eatÂ one food item, or a very small group
of food items, meal after meal. Some other common childhood eating behaviors
that can concern parents include fear of new foods and refusal to eat what is
served.

## Function

Children's eating habits can be a way for them to feel independent. This is
part of normal development in children.

## Recommendations

As a parent or caregiver, it is your role to provide healthy food and drink
choices. You can also help your child develop good eating habits by setting
regular meal and snack times and making mealtimes positive. Let your child
decide how much to eat at each meal. DO NOT encourage the "clean plate club."
Rather, encourage children to eat when they are hungry and stop when they are
full.

Children should be allowed to choose foods based on their likes and dislikes
and their caloric needs. Forcing your child to eat or rewarding your child
with food does not promote better eating habits. In fact, these actions can
cause long-lasting behavioral problems.

If the type of food your child is requesting is nutritious and easy to
prepare, continue to offer it along with a variety of other foods at each
meal. In most cases, children will start eating other foods before long. Once
a child is focused on a particular food, it can be very hard to substitute an
alternative. DO NOT worry if your child goes without eating much atÂ one meal.
Your child will make up for it at another meal or snack. Simply keep providing
nutritious foods at meals and snack times.

Things you can do to help your child try new foods include:

      * Have other family members help set a good example by eating a variety of healthy foods.
      * Prepare meals with different colors and textures that are pleasing to the eye.
      * Start introducing new tastes, especially green vegetables, beginning at 6 months, in the form of baby food.
      * Keep offering rejected foods. It can take multiple exposures before the new food is accepted.
      * Never try to force a child to eat. Mealtime should not be a time of fighting. Children will eat when hungry.
      * Avoid high-sugar and empty calorie snacks in between meals to allow children to build up an appetite for healthy foods.
      * Make sure children are seated comfortably at meal times and are not distracted.
      * Involving your child in cooking and food prep at an age appropriate level may be helpful. 

FEAR OF NEW FOODS

Fear of new foods is common in children, and new foods should not be forced on
a child. A child may need to be offered a new food 8 to 10 times before
accepting it. Continuing to offer new foods will help increase the likelihood
that your child will eventually taste and maybe even like a new food.

The taste rule --"You have to at least taste each food on your plate"-- may
work on some children. However, this approach may make a child more resistant.
Children mimic adult behavior. If another family member will not eat new
foods, you cannot expect your child to experiment.

Try not to label your child's eating habits. Food preferences change with
time, so a child may grow to like a food previously rejected. It may seem like
a waste of food at first, but over the long run, a child who accepts a large
variety of food makes meal planning and preparation easier.

REFUSING TO EAT WHAT IS SERVED

Refusing to eat what is served can be a powerful way for children to control
the actions of other family members. Some parents go to great lengths to
ensure that food intake is adequate. Healthy children will eat enough if
offered a variety of nutritious foods. Your child may eat very little at one
meal and make up for it at another meal or snack.

SNACKS

Providing scheduled meals and snack times is important for children. Kids need
a lot of energy, and snacks are key. However, snacks do not mean treats.
Fruits, vegetables, and whole grain products should be at the top of your
snack list. Some snack ideas include frozen fruit pops, milk, vegetable
sticks, fruit wedges, mixed dry cereal, pretzels, melted cheese on a whole-
wheat tortilla, or a small sandwich.

Allowing your child to be in control of food intake may seem hard at first.
However, it will help promote healthy eating habits for a lifetime.

## Alternative Names

Refusal to eat; Fear of new foods

## References

Ogata BN, Hayes D. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics:
nutrition guidance for healthy children ages 2 to 11 years. _J Acad Nutr
Diet_. 2014;114(8):1257-1276. PMID: 25060139
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25060139.

Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Sainath NN, Mitchell JA, Brownell JN, Stallings VA.
Feeding healthy infants, children, and adolescents. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 56.

Thompson M, Noel MB. Nutrition and family medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildNutrition_thumb.jpg)Child
Nutrition _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

