Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001434.htm    
                                Description: Thoracic outlet syndrome is a rare condition that involves:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thoracic outlet syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001434.htm

# Thoracic outlet syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thoracic outlet syndrome is a rare condition that involves:

      * Pain in the neck and shoulder
      * Numbness and tingling of the fingers
      * A weak grip 

The thoracic outlet is the area between the ribcage and collarbone.

## Causes

Nerves coming from the spine and major blood vessels of the body pass through
a narrow space near your shoulder and collarbone on the way to the arms.
Sometimes, there is not enough space for the nerves to pass by through the
collarbone and upper ribs.

Pressure (compression) on these blood vessels or nerves can cause symptoms in
the arms or hands.

Pressure may happen if you have:

      * An extra rib above the first one.
      * An abnormal tight band connecting the spine to the ribs. 

People with this syndrome often have injured the area in the past or overused
the shoulder.

People with long necks and droopy shoulders may be more likely to develop this
condition because of extra pressure on the nerves and blood vessels.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome may include:

      * Pain, numbness, and tingling in the pinky and ring fingers, and the inner forearm
      * Pain and tingling in the neck and shoulders (carrying something heavy may make the pain worse)
      * Signs of poor circulation in the hand or forearm (a bluish color, cold hands, or a swollen arm)
      * Weakness of the muscles in the hand

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask about your medical history
and symptoms.

The following tests may be done to confirm the diagnosis:

      * Electromyography (EMG)
      * CT angiogram
      * MRI
      * Nerve conduction velocity study
      * X-ray

Tests are also done to rule out other problems, such as carpal tunnel syndrome
or a damaged nerve due to problems in the neck.

## Treatment

Physical therapy is often used to treat thoracic outlet syndrome. It helps:

      * Make your shoulder muscles stronger
      * Improve your range of motion in the shoulder
      * Promote better posture 

Your provider may prescribe pain medicine.

If there is pressure on a vein, your provider may give you a blood thinner to
prevent a blood clot.

You may need surgery if physical therapy and changes in activity do not
improve your symptoms. The surgeon may make a cut either under your armpit or
just above your collarbone.

During surgery, the following may be done:

      * An extra rib is removed and certain muscles are cut.
      * A section of the first rib is removed to release pressure in the area.
      * Bypass surgery is done to reroute blood around the compression or remove the area that is causing the symptoms. 

Your doctor may also suggest other alternatives, including angioplasty, if the
artery is narrowed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery to remove the extra rib and break up tight fiber bands may ease
symptoms in some people. Some people have symptoms that return after surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications can occur with any surgery, and depend on the type of procedure
and anesthesia.

Risks related to this surgery include:

      * Damage to nerves or blood vessels, causing muscle weakness
      * Lung collapse 
      * Failure to relieve the symptoms

## Images

      * ![Thoracic outlet anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8963t.jpg)Thoracic outlet anatomy

## References

Filler AG. Brachial plexus nerve entrapments and thoracic outlet syndromes.
In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 250.

Osgood MJ, Lum YW. Thoracic outlet syndrome: pathophysiology and diagnostic
evaluation. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 120.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Thoracic Outlet
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThoracicOutletSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Thoracic
Outlet Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

