Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000676.htm    
                                Description: Many infants and children suck their thumbs. Some even start sucking their thumbs when they are still in the womb.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thumb sucking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000676.htm

# Thumb sucking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many infants and children suck their thumbs. Some even start sucking their
thumbs when they are still in the womb.

Thumb sucking can make children feel secure and happy. They may suck their
thumbs when they are tired, hungry, bored, stressed, or when they are trying
to calm down or fall asleep.

## Information

**Do not be too concerned if your child sucks his thumb.**

DO NOT punish or nag your child to make him stop. Most children stop sucking
their thumb on their own, by the time they are 3 to 4 years old. They grow out
of sucking their thumb and find other ways to comfort themselves.

Older children most often stop from peer pressure at school. But if your child
feels pressured to stop, he may want to suck his thumb more. Understand that
sucking his thumb is how your child calms and comforts himself.

It is ok for children to suck their thumb until their adult teeth start coming
in, at around age 6. Damage to the teeth or the roof of the mouth seems to
happen more if a child sucks hard. If your child does this, try to help him
stop sucking his thumb by age 4 years to prevent damage.

If your child's thumb gets red and chapped, put cream or lotion on it.

 **Help your child stop thumb sucking.**

Know that it is a hard habit to break. Start talking to your child about
stopping when he is 5 or 6 years old and you know his adult teeth are coming
in soon. Also, give help if thumb sucking embarrasses your child.

If you know when your child most often sucks his thumb, find other ways for
your child to find comfort and feel secure.

      * Offer a toy or a stuffed animal.
      * Put your child down for a nap earlier when you notice he is getting sleepy.
      * Help him talk out his frustrations instead of sucking on his thumb to calm down. 

**Give support to your child when he tries to stop sucking his thumb.**

Praise your child for not sucking his thumb.

Ask your child's dentist or health care provider to talk to your child about
stopping and to explain the reasons to stop. Also, ask your child's providers
about:

      * Using a bandage or thumb guard to help your child.
      * Using dental appliances if your child's teeth and mouth have been affected.
      * Placing a bitter nail polish on the thumb nail. Be careful to use something that is safe for your child to consume. 

## Images

      * ![Herpetic whitlow on the thumb](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1373t.jpg)Herpetic whitlow on the thumb
      * ![Thumbsucking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9969t.jpg)Thumbsucking

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics. Healthychildren.org website. Pacifiers and
thumb sucking. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/crying-
colic/Pages/Pacifiers-and-Thumb-Sucking.aspx. Accessed July 26, 2019.

Martin B, Baumhardt H, D'Alesio A, Woods K. Oral disorders. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Ryan CA, Walter HJ, DeMaso DR. Motor disorders and habits. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 37.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Toddler Development

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

