Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002005.htm    
                                Description: The typical 12-month-old child will demonstrate certain physical and mental skills. These skills are called developmental milestones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record - 12 months

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002005.htm

# Developmental milestones record - 12 months

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The typical 12-month-old child will demonstrate certain physical and mental
skills. These skills are called developmental milestones.

## Information

All children develop a little differently. If you are concerned about your
child's development, talk to your child's health care provider.

PHYSICAL AND MOTOR SKILLS

A 12-month-old child is expected to:

      * Be 3 times their birth weight
      * Grow to a height of 50% over birth length
      * Have a head circumference equal to that of their chest
      * Have 1 to 8 teeth
      * Stand without holding on to anything
      * Walk alone or when holdingÂ one hand
      * Sit down without help
      * Bang 2 blocks together
      * Turn through the pages of a book by flipping many pages at a time
      * Pick up a small object using the tip of their thumb and index finger
      * Sleep 8 to 10 hours a night and take 1 to 2 naps during the day

SENSORY AND COGNITIVE DEVELOPMENT

The typical 12-month-old:

      * Begins pretend play (such as pretending to drink from a cup)
      * Follows a fast moving object
      * Responds to their name
      * Can say momma, papa, and at least 1 or 2 other words
      * Understands simple commands
      * Tries to imitate animal sounds
      * Connects names with objects
      * Understands that objects continue to exist, even when they can't be seen
      * Participates in getting dressed (raises arms)
      * Plays simple back and forth games (ball game)
      * Points to objects with the index finger
      * Waves goodbye
      * May develop an attachment to a toy or object
      * Experiences separation anxiety and may cling to parents
      * May make brief journeys away from parents to explore in familiar settings

PLAY

You can help your 12-month-old develop skills through play:

      * Provide picture books.
      * Provide different stimuli, such as going to the mall or zoo.
      * Play ball.
      * Build vocabulary by reading and naming people and objects in the environment.
      * Teach hot and cold through play.
      * Provide large toys that can be pushed to encourage walking.
      * Sing songs.
      * Have a play date with a child of a similar age.
      * Avoid television and other screen time until age 2.
      * Try using a transitional object to help with separation anxiety.

## Alternative Names

Normal childhood growth milestones - 12 months; Growth milestones for children
- 12 months; Childhood growth milestones - 12 months; Well child - 12 months

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed November 14, 2018.

Feigelman S. The first year. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 10.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Development _Read more_

![Toddler
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

