Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001542.htm    
                                Description: Separation anxiety in children is a developmental stage in which the child is anxious when separated from the primary caregiver (usually the mother).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Separation anxiety in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001542.htm

# Separation anxiety in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Separation anxiety in children is a developmental stage in which the child is
anxious when separated from the primary caregiver (usually the mother).

## Causes

As infants grow, their emotions and reactions to the world around them seem to
occur in a predictable order. Before 8 months, infants are so new to the world
that they lack a sense of what is normal and safe and what may be dangerous.
As a result, new settings or people seem to not frighten them.

From 8 to 14 months, children often become frightened when they meet new
people or visit new places. They recognize their parents as familiar and safe.
When separated from their parents, they feel threatened and unsafe.

Separation anxiety is a normal stage as a child grows and develops. It helped
keep our ancestors alive and helps children learn how to master the world
around them.

It usually ends when the child is around 2 years old. At this age, toddlers
begin to understand that parents may be out of sight now, but will return
later. It's also normal for them to test their independence.

To get over separation anxiety, children need to:

      * Feel safe in their home.
      * Trust people other than their parents.
      * Trust that their parents will return.

Even after children have mastered this stage, separation anxiety may return in
times of stress. Most children will feel some degree of separation anxiety
when in unfamiliar situations, most often when separated from their parents.

When children are in situations (such as hospitals) and are under stress (such
as illness or pain), they seek the safety, comfort, and protection of their
parents. Since anxiety can worsen pain, staying with a child as much as
possible can reduce the pain.

## Symptoms

A child with severe separation anxiety may have any of the following:

      * Excessive distress when separated from the primary caregiver
      * Nightmares
      * Reluctance to go to school or other places because of fear of separation
      * Reluctance to go to sleep without the primary caregiver nearby
      * Repeated physical complaints
      * Worry about losing, or harm coming to the primary caregiver

## Exams and Tests

There are no tests for this condition, because it is normal.

If severe separation anxiety persists past age 2, a visit with a health care
provider may help determine if the child has an anxiety disorder or other
condition.

## Treatment

No treatment is needed for normal separation anxiety.

Parents can help their infant or toddler adjust to their absence by letting
trusted caregivers babysit the child. This helps the child learn to trust and
bond with other adults and understand that their parents will return.

During medical procedures, a parent should go with the child if possible. When
a parent can't go with the child, exposing the child to the situation
beforehand may be helpful, such as visiting the doctor's office before a test.

Some hospitals have child life specialists who can explain procedures and
medical conditions to children of all ages. If your child is very anxious and
needs extended medical care, ask your provider about such services.

When it's not possible for parents to be with the child, such as for surgery,
explain the experience to the child. Reassure the child that a parent is
waiting, and where.

For older children who have not outgrown separation anxiety, treatments may
include:

      * Anti-anxiety medicines
      * Changes in parenting techniques
      * Counseling for the parents and child

Treatment for severe cases may include:

      * Family education
      * Family therapy
      * Talk therapy

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Young children with symptoms that improve after age 2 are normal, even if some
anxiety comes back later during stress. When separation anxiety occurs in
adolescence, it may signal the development of an anxiety disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has severe separation anxiety after age 2.

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. How to ease your child's separation
anxiety. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/toddler/Pages/Soothing-
Your-Childs-Separation-Anxiety.aspx. Updated November 21, 2015. Accessed June
18, 2018.

Feigelman S. The second year. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 11.

Rosenberg DR. Chiriboga JA. Anxiety disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Anxiety _Read
more_

![Infant and Newborn
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Development _Read more_

![Toddler
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Development _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

