Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002014.htm    
                                Description: This article describes the skills and growth markers that are relevant to 3-year-olds.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record - 3 years

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002014.htm

# Developmental milestones record - 3 years

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes the skills and growth markers that are relevant to
3-year-olds.

## Information

These milestones are typical for children in their third year of life. Always
keep in mind that some differences are normal. If you have questions about
your child's development, contact your child's health care provider.

Physical and motor milestones for a typical 3-year-old include:

      * Gains about 4 to 5 pounds (1.8 to 2.25 kilograms)
      * Grows about 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 centimeters)
      * Reaches about half of his or her adult height
      * Has improved balance
      * Has improved vision (20/30)
      * Has all 20 primary teeth
      * Needs 11 to 13 hours of sleep a day
      * May have daytime control over bowel and bladder functions (may have nighttime control as well)
      * Can briefly balance and hop on one foot
      * May walk up stairs with alternating feet (without holding the rail)
      * Can build a block tower of more than 9 cubes
      * Can easily place small objects in a small opening
      * Can copy a circle
      * Can pedal a tricycle 

Sensory, mental, and social milestones include:

      * Has a vocabulary of several hundred words
      * Speaks in sentences of 3 words
      * Counts 3 objects
      * Uses plurals and pronouns (he/she)
      * Often asks questions
      * Can dress self, only needing help with shoelaces, buttons, and other fasteners in awkward places
      * Can stay focused for a longer period of time
      * Has a longer attention span
      * Feeds self easily
      * Acts out social encounters through play activities
      * Becomes less afraid when separated from mother or caregiver for short periods of time
      * Fears imaginary things
      * Knows own name, age, and gender (boy/girl)
      * Starts to share
      * Has some cooperative play (building tower of blocks together) 

At age 3, almost all of a child's speech should be understandable.

Temper tantrums are common at this age. Children who have tantrums that often
last for more than 15 minutes or that occur more than 3 times a day should be
seen by a provider.

Ways to encourage a 3-year-old's development include:

      * Provide a safe play area and constant supervision.
      * Provide the necessary space for physical activity.
      * Help your child take part in -- and learn the rules of -- sports and games.
      * Limit both the time and content of television and computer viewing.
      * Visit local areas of interest.
      * Encourage your child to help with small household chores, such as helping set the table or picking up toys.
      * Encourage play with other children to help develop social skills.
      * Encourage creative play.
      * Read together.
      * Encourage your child to learn by answering their questions.
      * Provide activities related to your child's interests.
      * Encourage your child to use words to express feelings (rather than acting out). 

## Alternative Names

Normal childhood growth milestones - 3 years; Growth milestones for children -
3 years; Childhood growth milestones - 3 years; Well child - 3 years

## References

Feigelman S. The preschool years. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Keane VA. Assessment of growth. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Toddler
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

