Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002011.htm    
                                Description: The typical 18-month-old child will demonstrate certain physical and mental skills. These skills are called developmental milestones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record - 18 months

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002011.htm

# Developmental milestones record - 18 months

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The typical 18-month-old child will demonstrate certain physical and mental
skills. These skills are called developmental milestones.

## Information

All children develop a little differently. If you are concerned about your
child's development, talk to your child's health care provider.

PHYSICAL AND MOTOR SKILL MARKERS

The typical 18-month-old:

      * Has a closed soft spot on the front of the head
      * Is growing at a slower rate and has less of an appetite compared to the months before
      * Is able to control the muscles used to urinate and have bowel movements, but may not be ready to use the toilet
      * Runs stiffly and falls often
      * Is able to get onto small chairs without help
      * Walks up stairs while holding on withÂ one hand
      * Can build a tower of 2 to 4 blocks
      * Can use a spoon and cup with help to feed self
      * Imitates scribbling
      * Can turn 2 or 3 pages of a book at a time 

SENSORY AND COGNITIVE MARKERS

The typical 18-month-old:

      * Shows affection
      * Has separation anxiety
      * Listens to a story or looks at pictures
      * Can say 10 or more words when asked
      * Kisses parents with lips puckered
      * IdentifiesÂ one or more parts of the body
      * Understands and is able to point to and identify common objects
      * Often imitates
      * Is able to take off some clothing items, such as gloves, hats, and socks
      * Begins to feel a sense of ownership, identifying people and objects by saying "my" 

PLAY RECOMMENDATIONS

      * Encourage and provide the necessary space for physical activity.
      * Provide safe copies of adult tools and equipment for the child to play with.
      * Allow the child to help around the house and participate in the family's daily responsibilities.
      * Encourage play that involves building and creativity.
      * Read to the child.
      * Encourage play dates with children of the same age.
      * Avoid television and other screen time before age 2.
      * Play simple games together, such as puzzles and shape sorting.
      * Use a transitional object to help with separation anxiety. 

## Alternative Names

Growth milestones for children - 18 months; Normal childhood growth milestones
- 18 months; Childhood growth milestones - 18 months; Well child - 18 months

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed November 14, 2018.

Feigelman S. The second year. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 11.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Toddler
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

