Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001417.htm    
                                Description: Tay-Sachs disease is a life-threatening disease of the nervous system passed down through families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tay-Sachs disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001417.htm

# Tay-Sachs disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tay-Sachs disease is a life-threatening disease of the nervous system passed
down through families.

## Causes

Tay-Sachs disease occurs when the body lacks hexosaminidase A. This is a
protein that helps break down a group of chemicals found in nerve tissue
called gangliosides. Without this protein, gangliosides, particularly
ganglioside GM2, build up in cells, often nerve cells in the brain.

Tay-Sachs disease is caused by a defective gene on chromosome 15\. When both
parents carry the defective Tay-Sachs gene, a child has a 25% chance of
developing the disease. The child must receive two copies of the defective
gene, one from each parent, in order to become sick. If only one parent passes
the defective gene to the child, the child is called a carrier. They will not
be sick, but may pass the disease to their own children.

Anyone can be a carrier of Tay-Sachs. But, the disease is most common among
the Ashkenazi Jewish population. One in every 27 members of the population
carries the Tay-Sachs gene.

Tay-Sachs is divided into infantile, juvenile, and adult forms, depending on
the symptoms and when they first appear. Most people with Tay-Sachs have the
infantile form. In this form, the nerve damage usually begins while the baby
is still in the womb. Symptoms usually appear when the child is 3 to 6 months
old. The disease tends to get worse very quickly, and the child usually dies
by age 4 or 5.

Late-onset Tay-Sachs disease, which affects adults, is very rare.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Deafness
      * Decreased eye contact, blindness
      * Decreased muscle tone (loss of muscle strength), loss of motor skills, paralysis
      * Slow growth and delayed mental and social skills
      * Dementia (loss of brain function)
      * Increased startle reaction
      * Irritability
      * Listlessness
      * Seizures

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the baby and ask about your family
history. Tests that may be done are:

      * Enzyme exam of blood or body tissue for hexosaminidase levels
      * Eye exam (reveals a cherry-red spot in the macula) 

## Treatment

There is no treatment for Tay-Sachs disease itself, only ways to make the
person more comfortable.

## Support Groups

The stress of illness may be eased by joining support groups whose members
share common experiences and problems. The following groups can provide more
information on Tay-Sachs disease:

      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/tay-sachs-disease
      * National Tay-Sachs and Allied Diseases Association -- www.ntsad.org
      * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/tay-sachs-disease

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with this disease have symptoms that get worse over time. They
usually die by age 4 or 5.

## Possible Complications

Symptoms appear during the first 3 to 10 months of life and progress to
spasticity, seizures, and loss of all voluntary movements.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if:

      * Your child has a seizure of unknown cause
      * The seizure is different from previous seizures
      * The child has difficulty breathing
      * The seizure lasts longer than 2 to 3 minutes 

Call for an appointment with your provider if your child has other noticeable
behavioral changes.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disorder. Genetic testing can detect if
you are a carrier of the gene for this disorder. If you or your partner is
from an at-risk population, you may wish to seek genetic counseling before
starting a family.

If you are already pregnant, testing the amniotic fluid can diagnose Tay-Sachs
disease in the womb.

## Alternative Names

GM2 gangliosidosis - Tay-Sachs; Lysosomal storage disease - Tay-Sachs disease

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Kwon JM. Neurodegenerative disorders of childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 599.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. The molecular, biochemical, and cellular
basis of genetic disease. In: Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds.
_Thompson and Thompson Genetics in Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Wapner RJ, Dugoff L. Prenatal diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 32.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tay-Sachs
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TaySachsDisease_thumb.jpg)Tay-Sachs
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

