Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000379.htm    
                                Description: Turner syndrome is a rare genetic condition in which a female does not have the usual pair of X chromosomes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Turner syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000379.htm

# Turner syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Turner syndrome is a rare genetic condition in which a female does not have
the usual pair of X chromosomes.

## Causes

The typical number of human chromosomes is 46. Chromosomes contain all of your
genes and DNA, the building blocks of the body. Two of these chromosomes, the
sex chromosomes, determine if you become a boy or a girl.

      * Females typically have 2 of the same sex chromosomes, written as XX. 
      * Males have an X and a Y chromosome (written as XY).

In Turner syndrome, cells are missing all or part of an X chromosome. The
condition only occurs in females. Most commonly, a female with Turner syndrome
has only 1 X chromosome. Others may have 2 X chromosomes, but one of them is
incomplete. Sometimes, a female has some cells with 2 X chromosomes, but other
cells have only 1.

## Symptoms

Possible findings of the head and neck include:

      * Ears are low-set.
      * Neck appears wide or web-like.
      * Roof of the mouth is narrow (high palate).
      * Hairline at the back of the head is lower. 
      * Lower jaw is lower and appears to fade away (recede).
      * Drooping eyelids and dry eyes.

Other findings may include:

      * Fingers and toes are short.
      * Hands and feet are swollen in infants.
      * Nails are narrow and turn upward.
      * Chest is broad and flat. Nipples appear more widely spaced.
      * Height at birth is often smaller than average.

A child with Turner syndrome is much shorter than children who are the same
age and sex. This is called short stature. This problem may not be noticed in
girls before age 11.

Puberty may be absent or not complete. If puberty occurs, it most often begins
at the normal age. After the age of puberty, unless treated with female
hormones, these findings may be present:

      * Pubic hair is often present and normal.
      * Breast development may not occur.
      * Menstrual periods are absent or very light.
      * Vaginal dryness and pain with intercourse are common.
      * Infertility.

Sometimes, the diagnosis of Turner syndrome may not be made until an adult. It
may be discovered because a woman has very light or no menstrual periods and
problems becoming pregnant.

## Exams and Tests

Turner syndrome can be diagnosed at any stage of life.

It may be diagnosed before birth if:

      * A chromosome analysis is done during prenatal testing.
      * A cystic hygroma is a growth that often occurs in the head and neck area. This finding may be seen on ultrasound during the pregnancy and leads to further testing.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and look for signs of
atypical development. Infants with Turner syndrome often have swollen hands
and feet.

The following tests may be performed:

      * Blood hormone levels (luteinizing hormone, estrogen, and follicle-stimulating hormone)
      * Echocardiogram
      * Karyotyping
      * MRI of the chest
      * Ultrasound of reproductive organs and kidneys
      * Pelvic exam 

Other tests that may be done periodically include:

      * Blood pressure screening
      * Thyroid checks
      * Blood tests for lipids and glucose
      * Hearing screening
      * Eye exam
      * Bone density testing

## Treatment

Growth hormone may help a child with Turner syndrome grow taller.

Estrogen and other hormones are often started when the girl is 12 or 13 years
old.

      * These help trigger the growth of breasts, pubic hair, other sexual characteristics, and growth in height.
      * Estrogen therapy is continued through life until the age of menopause.

Women with Turner syndrome who wish to become pregnant may consider using a
donor egg.

Women with Turner syndrome may need care or monitoring for the following
health problems:

      * Keloid formation
      * Hearing loss
      * High blood pressure
      * Diabetes
      * Thinning of the bones (osteoporosis)
      * Widening of the aorta and narrowing of the aortic valve
      * Cataracts
      * Obesity

Other issues may include:

      * Weight management
      * Exercise
      * Transition to adulthood
      * Stress and depression over changes

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Those with Turner syndrome can have a normal life when carefully monitored by
their provider.

## Possible Complications

Other health problems may include:

      * Thyroiditis
      * Kidney problems
      * Middle ear infections
      * Scoliosis

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent Turner syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Bonnevie-Ullrich syndrome; Gonadal dysgenesis; Monosomy X; XO

## References

Bacino CA, Lee B. Sex chromosome aneuploidy. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 81.

Saenger P, Bondy CA. Turner syndrome. In: Sperling MA, ed. _Pediatric
Endocrinology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 16.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Turner
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Turnersyndrome_thumb.jpg)Turner
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

