Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001053.htm    
                                Description: Glossitis is a problem in which the tongue is swollen and inflamed. This often makes the surface of the tongue appear smooth. Geographic tongue is a type of glossitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glossitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001053.htm

# Glossitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glossitis is a problem in which the tongue is swollen and inflamed. This often
makes the surface of the tongue appear smooth. Geographic tongue is a type of
glossitis.

## Causes

Glossitis is often a symptom of other conditions, such as:

      * Allergic reactions to oral care products, foods, or medicine
      * Dry mouth due to SjÃ¶gren syndrome
      * Infection from bacteria, yeast or viruses (including oral herpes)
      * Injury (such as from burns, rough teeth, or bad-fitting dentures)
      * Skin conditions that affect the mouth
      * Irritants such as tobacco, alcohol, hot foods, spices, or other irritants
      * Hormonal factors
      * Certain vitamin deficiencies 

At times, glossitis may be passed down in families.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of glossitis may come on quickly or develop over time. They include:

      * Problems chewing, swallowing, or speaking
      * Smooth surface of the tongue
      * Sore, tender, or swollen tongue
      * Pale or bright red color to the tongue
      * Tongue swelling 

Rare symptoms or problems include:

      * Blocked airway
      * Problems speaking, chewing, or swallowing 

## Exams and Tests

Your dentist or health care provider will do an exam to look for:

      * Finger-like bumps on the surface of the tongue (called papillae) that may be missing
      * Swollen tongue (or patches of swelling) 

The provider may ask questions about your health history and lifestyle to help
discover the cause of tongue inflammation.

You may need blood tests to rule out other medical problems.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce swelling and soreness. Most people do not
need to go to the hospital unless the tongue is very swollen. Treatment may
include:

      * Good oral care. Brush your teeth thoroughly at least twice a day and floss at least once a day.
      * Antibiotics or other medicines to treat infection.
      * Diet changes and supplements to treat nutrition problems.
      * Avoiding irritants (such as hot or spicy foods, alcohol, and tobacco) to ease discomfort. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Glossitis goes away if the cause of problem is removed or treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Symptoms of glossitis last longer than 10 days. 
      * Tongue swelling is very bad. 
      * Breathing, speaking, chewing, or swallowing causes problems. 

Get emergency care right away if tongue swelling blocks the airway.

## Prevention

Good oral care (thorough tooth brushing and flossing and regular dental
checkups) may help prevent glossitis.

## Alternative Names

Tongue inflammation; Tongue infection; Smooth tongue; Glossodynia; Burning
tongue syndrome

## Images

      * ![Tongue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8686t.jpg)Tongue

## References

Daniels TE, Jordan RC. Diseases of the mouth and salivary glands. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 425.

Mirowski GW, Leblanc J, Mark LA. Oral disease and oral-cutaneous
manifestations of gastrointestinal and liver disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tongue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TongueDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tongue
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

