Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003047.htm    
                                Description: Tongue problems include pain, swelling, or a change in how the tongue looks.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tongue problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003047.htm

# Tongue problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tongue problems include pain, swelling, or a change in how the tongue looks.

## Considerations

The tongue is mainly made up of muscles. It is covered with a mucous membrane.
Small bumps (papillae) cover the surface of back part of the tongue.

      * Between the papillae are the taste buds, which allow you to taste.
      * The tongue moves food to help you chew and swallow.
      * The tongue also helps you form words. 

There are many different reasons for changes in the tongue's function and
appearance.

PROBLEMS MOVING THE TONGUE

Tongue movement problems are most often caused by nerve damage. Rarely,
problems moving the tongue may also be caused by a disorder where the band of
tissue that attaches the tongue to the floor of the mouth is too short. This
is called ankyloglossia.

Tongue movement problems may lead to:

      * Breastfeeding problems in newborns
      * Difficulty moving food during chewing and swallowing
      * Speech problems 

TASTE PROBLEMS

Taste problems can be caused by:

      * Damage to the taste buds
      * Nerve problems
      * Side effects of some medicines
      * An infection, or other condition 

The tongue normally senses sweet, salty, sour, and bitter tastes. Other
"tastes" are actually a function of the sense of smell.

![Tasting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200015t.gif)Watch this
video about:Tasting

INCREASED SIZE OF THE TONGUE

Tongue swelling occurs with:

      * Acromegaly
      * Amyloidosis
      * Down syndrome
      * Myxedema
      * Rhabdomyoma
      * Prader Willi Syndrome 

The tongue may get wider in people who have no teeth and do not wear dentures.

Sudden swelling of the tongue can happen due to an allergic reaction or a side
effect of medicines.

COLOR CHANGES

Color changes may occur when the tongue becomes inflamed (glossitis). Papillae
(bumps on the tongue) are lost, causing the tongue to appear smooth.
Geographic tongue is a patchy form of glossitis where the location of
inflammation and the appearance of the tongue change from day to day.

HAIRY TONGUE

Hairy tongue is a condition in which the tongue looks hairy or furry. It can
sometimes be treated with antifungal medicine.

BLACK TONGUE

Sometimes the upper surface of the tongue turns black or brown in color. This
is an unsightly condition but it is not harmful.

PAIN IN THE TONGUE

Pain may occur with glossitis and geographic tongue. Tongue pain may also
occur with:

      * Diabetic neuropathy
      * Leukoplakia
      * Mouth ulcers
      * Oral cancer

After menopause, some women have a sudden feeling that their tongue has been
burned. This is called burning tongue syndrome or idiopathic glossopyrosis.
There is no specific treatment for burning tongue syndrome, but capsaicin (the
ingredient that makes peppers spicy) can offer relief to some people.

## Causes

Minor infections or irritations are the most common cause of tongue soreness.
Injury, such as biting the tongue, can cause painful sores. Heavy smoking can
irritate the tongue and make it painful.

A benign ulcer on the tongue or elsewhere in the mouth is common. This is
called a canker sore and can appear for no known reason.

Possible causes of tongue pain include:

      * Anemia
      * Cancer
      * Dentures that irritate the tongue
      * Oral herpes (ulcers)
      * Neuralgia
      * Pain from teeth and gums
      * Pain from the heart

Possible causes of tongue tremor:

      * Neurological disorder
      * Overactive thyroid

Possible causes of white tongue:

      * Local irritation
      * Smoking and alcohol use 

Possible causes of smooth tongue:

      * Anemia
      * Vitamin B12 deficiency 

Possible causes of red (ranging from pink to reddish-purple) tongue:

      * Folic acid and vitamin B12 deficiency
      * Pellagra
      * Pernicious anemia
      * Plummer-Vinson syndrome
      * Sprue

Possible causes of tongue swelling:

      * Acromegaly
      * Allergic reaction to food or medicine
      * Amyloidosis
      * Angioedema
      * Beckwith syndrome
      * Cancer of the tongue
      * Congenital micrognathia
      * Down syndrome
      * Hypothyroidism
      * Infection
      * Leukemia
      * Lymphangioma
      * Neurofibromatosis
      * Pellagra
      * Pernicious anemia
      * Strep infection
      * Tumor of the pituitary gland

Possible causes of a hairy tongue:

      * AIDS
      * Antibiotic therapy
      * Drinking coffee
      * Dyes in drugs and food
      * Chronic medical conditions
      * Overuse of mouthwashes containing oxidizing or astringent ingredients
      * Radiation of the head and neck
      * Tobacco use 

## Home Care

Practicing good oral self-care can help hairy tongue and black tongue. Be sure
to eat a well-balanced diet.

Canker sores will heal on their own.

See your dentist if you have a tongue problem caused by dentures.

Antihistamines can help relieve a swollen tongue caused by allergies. Avoid
the food or drug that causes the tongue swelling. Seek medical attention right
away if swelling is starting to make breathing difficult.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your tongue problem persists.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam, to look closely at the tongue. You
may be asked questions such as:

      * When did you first notice the problem?
      * Have you had similar symptoms before?
      * Do you have pain, swelling, breathing problems, or difficulty swallowing? Are there problems with speaking or moving the tongue?
      * Have you noticed changes in taste?
      * Do you have a tongue tremor?
      * What makes the problem worse? What have you tried that helps?
      * Do you wear dentures?
      * Are there problems with the teeth, gums, lips, or throat? Does the tongue bleed?
      * Do you have a rash or fever? Do you have allergies?
      * What medicines do you take?
      * Do you use tobacco products or drink alcohol? 

You may need blood tests or a biopsy to check for other conditions.

Treatment depends on the cause of the tongue problem. Possible treatments
include:

      * If nerve damage has caused a tongue movement problem, the condition must be treated. Therapy may be needed to improve speech and swallowing.
      * Ankyloglossia may not need to be treated, unless you have speech or swallowing problems. Surgery to release the tongue can relieve the problem.
      * Medicine may be prescribed for mouth ulcers, leukoplakia, oral cancer, and other mouth sores.
      * Anti-inflammatory medicines may be prescribed for glossititis and geographic tongue. 

## Alternative Names

Dark tongue; Burning tongue syndrome - symptoms

## Images

      * ![Black hairy tongue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1909t.jpg)Black hairy tongue
      * ![Black hairy tongue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2375t.jpg)Black hairy tongue

## References

Daniels TE, Jordan RC. Diseases of the mouth and salivary glands. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 425.

Mirowski GW, Leblanc J, Mark LA. Oral disease and oral-cutaneous
manifestations of gastrointestinal and liver disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 24.

Turner MD. Oral manifestations of systemic diseases. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 14.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tongue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TongueDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tongue
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

