Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001049.htm    
                                Description: Geographic tongue is characterized by irregular patches on the surface of the tongue. This gives it a map-like appearance.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Geographic tongue

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001049.htm

# Geographic tongue

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Geographic tongue is characterized by irregular patches on the surface of the
tongue. This gives it a map-like appearance.

## Causes

The exact cause of geographic tongue is unknown. It may be caused by a lack of
vitamin B. It also may be due to irritation from hot or spicy foods, or
alcohol. The condition appears to be less common in smokers.

The change in pattern on the surface of the tongue occurs when there is a loss
of the tiny, finger-like projections, called papillae, on the tongue. These
areas look flat as a result. The appearance of the tongue may change very
quickly. The flat-looking areas may remain for more than a month.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Map-like appearance to the surface of the tongue
      * Patches that move from day to day
      * Smooth, red patches and sores (lesions) on the tongue
      * Soreness and burning pain (in some cases) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will diagnose this condition by looking at your
tongue. Most of the time, tests are not needed.

## Treatment

No treatment is needed. Antihistamine gel or steroid mouth rinses may help
ease discomfort.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Geographic tongue is a harmless condition. It may be uncomfortable and last
for a long time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if the symptoms last longer than 10 days. Seek medical help
right away if:

      * You have breathing problems.
      * Your tongue is severely swollen.
      * You have problems speaking, chewing, or swallowing. 

## Prevention

Avoid irritating your tongue with hot or spicy food or alcohol if you are
prone to this condition.

## Alternative Names

Patches on the tongue; Tongue - patchy; Benign migratory glossitis; Glossitis
- benign migratory

## Images

      * ![Tongue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8686t.jpg)Tongue

## References

Daniels TE, Jordan RC. Diseases of the mouth and salivary glands. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 425.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Disorders of the
mucous membranes. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM,
eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 34.

Mirowski GW, Leblanc J, Mark LA. Oral disease and oral-cutaneous
manifestations of gastrointestinal and liver disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tongue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TongueDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tongue
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

