

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Care of a Neonate Born to a Mother who is Confirmed to have Ebola, is a
Person under Investigation, or has been Exposed to Ebola

Minus

Related Pages

#### Interim Guidance for U.S. Hospitals on the Care of a Neonate Born to a
Mother who is Confirmed to have Ebola, is a Person under Investigation (PUI),
or has been Exposed to Ebola

**Who this is for** : Healthcare professionals working with neonates in labor
and delivery, neonatal intensive care units, newborn nurseries, and other
settings in U.S. hospitals.

**What this is for** : Guidance on how to care for neonates born to mothers
exposed to Ebola virus, PUIs, or with confirmed Ebola.

**How to use this** : This guidance is intended to help U.S. hospitals develop
plans for treating neonates born to PUIs or to mothers with confirmed Ebola.
Note: Ideally, these mothers and neonates will be cared for in Ebola
assessment hospitals (if the mother is a PUI) or Ebola treatment centers (if
the mother is confirmed to have Ebola.)1

**What is known about neonates born to mothers with Ebola?**

While data are limited, reports from Ebola outbreaks indicate that spontaneous
fetal loss is high among pregnant women with Ebola.2-4 Neonates born to women
with Ebola are often premature,5 and typically do not survive for more than a
few weeks.2,6,7 It is not clear whether these deaths are due to transmission
of Ebola virus from mother to the neonate or to other factors that contribute
to high infant mortality rates in Ebola-affected countries;7 however, recent
data have suggested there is in utero transmission of Ebola virus to the
fetus.4 Further, there are limited data on clinical signs at presentation of
Ebola in neonates. In a 1976 outbreak, among 11 neonates born to mothers with
Ebola, seven had fever with few other signs.7 There is no experience with
neonates born to women with Ebola in settings with a highly developed
healthcare system.

There is only one report of neonatal survival in an infant born to a mother
with evidence of EVD infection. This infant was born to a 25-year-old
previously healthy woman who reported onset of EVD symptoms 8 days prior to
delivery. The mother was treated with favipiravir on day 5 of her illness, and
died on the eighth day of her illness (hospital day 5) due to severe vaginal
bleeding after a spontaneous vaginal delivery. Her infant was treated with
monoclonal antibodies (ZMapp), a buffy coat transfusion from an Ebola
survivor, and the antiviral GS-5734. Aside from seizure-like activity, the
infant had no other symptoms and was discharged home. Subsequent weekly
follow-up has demonstrated normal development and growth at 12 months of life.
18

The following guidance is based on the current, yet limited, knowledge and
best practices for infection control.  As more information is learned about
neonates born to mothers with Ebola, this guidance may change. Additionally,
guidance is available from CDC on caring for pregnant women with Ebola in U.S.
hospitals.8

**Care of neonates born to mothers with confirmed Ebola**

Because it is not known if, or when, all neonates born to mothers with Ebola
acquire Ebola virus infection perinatally, neonates delivered of mothers with
confirmed Ebola should be considered a PUI.  Local public health officials and
CDC should be alerted. Neonates should be immediately separated from their
mothers and cared for in an isolation unit for 21 days. Healthcare workers
caring for these neonates should follow recommendations for use of personal
protective equipment (PPE) when caring for patients with Ebola.9 Treatment
decisions should be made by the clinical team caring for the patient. However,
infection control considerations may help to inform providers' decisions and
should influence hospitals' planning processes. If resuscitation is indicated,
it should occur with adherence to isolation precautions, environmental
hygiene, and waste management, as well as worker safety practices that include
the **use of PPE**, and in accordance with the principles of the American
Heart Association (AHA) and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Neonatal
Resuscitation Program.9,10 Decisions to discharge the neonate after 21 days of
monitoring with no signs of infection and a negative result of Ebola virus
testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen should be made in conjunction with local
public health authorities.

**_Care during isolation:_** To date, there have been no reports of healthy
neonates delivered of pregnant women with confirmed Ebola. However, in the
circumstance that a neonate is healthy and stable after delivery of a pregnant
woman with confirmed Ebola, routine newborn care should be provided and non-
invasive screening tests should be conducted.11 (See Table 1) **Appropriate
PPE** should be worn at all times9. Decisions to delay invasive screening
tests and immunizations should consider the diagnosis of Ebola in the neonate,
maternal conditions (such as Hepatitis B), and family history. Circumcision
should be delayed until the 21-day isolation period has concluded and/or a
negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen has been
documented to prevent the exposure of healthcare workers to Ebola virus.
Decisions on when circumcision can safely be performed should be made in
conjunction with local public health authorities. A careful history should be
sought to ensure that the mother was screened for other causes of tropical
febrile illnesses that could contribute to increased morbidity in the neonate,
especially malaria. If the neonate becomes febrile during hospitalization,
local causes of fever, including hospital-acquired bacterial infections and
viral illnesses other than Ebola, should also be sought.

**_Breastfeeding Recommendations:_** In a few situations where breast milk was
tested after recovery from EVD, Ebola virus genetic material was identified in
the breast milk of two different lactating women from 6 to 26 days after
disease onset.13, 14 Because Ebola virus has been shown to be present in
breast milk, neonates born to pregnant women with confirmed Ebola virus
infection should not breastfeed. There is not enough evidence to provide
guidance on when it is safe to resume breastfeeding after the mother recovers
from EVD. Where available, testing of breastmilk for the presence of Ebola
virus genetic material can help to guide decisions about when breastfeeding
can be safely resumed.

Donor breast milk or Ready to Use Infant Formula (RUIF), if available, may be
an acceptable substitute.

**_Safe Handling of Breast Milk in Healthcare Settings:_** Standard
precautions for prevention of transmission of bloodborne pathogens do not
apply to human breast milk in most circumstances.15 However, there are no data
about the risks from exposure to breast milk containing Ebola virus in
healthcare settings. Thus, when a mother has confirmed Ebola virus infection,
**PPE guidance** should be followed for anyone handling her breast milk.9,16
The expressed milk of a mother with confirmed Ebola virus infection is
considered Category A infectious waste and must be disposed of in accordance
with CDC guidance on waste management.17

**Care of neonates born to PUIs**

Neonates born to mothers under investigation for Ebola should be treated as a
PUI until the Ebola virus status of the mother is determined. Neonates should
be immediately separated from their mothers, placed into isolation for 21
days, monitored for Ebola virus infection, and cared for with **appropriate
PPE**.9 If the mother is confirmed to have Ebola, healthcare workers should
follow the guidance above on care of a neonate born to a mother with confirmed
Ebola. If it is determined that the mother does not have Ebola, the neonate
may be removed from isolation and cared for using standard hospital protocol.
However, if the mother later develops signs and symptoms consistent with Ebola
during her 21 days of monitoring, the neonate should be separated immediately,
placed into an isolation unit and cared for with **appropriate PPE** until
Ebola virus infection in the neonate is ruled out .9 If the mother tests
positive for Ebola virus, the 21-day monitoring period would be reset for the
neonate to the date of last contact with the mother. Decisions to discharge
the neonate after 21 days of monitoring with no signs of infection and a
negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen should be
made in conjunction with local public health authorities.

**_Care during isolation_** : Neonates born to mothers under investigation for
Ebola should be cared for using the same guidelines used for neonates born to
mothers with confirmed Ebola, until the Ebola virus status of the mother is
determined.

**_Breastfeeding Recommendations_** : A mother who is under investigation for
Ebola should not breastfeed until her Ebola virus infection status is
resolved. Donor breast milk, if available, may be an acceptable substitute. To
establish and maintain breast milk production, she may express her breast
milk. If pumping, she must use a dedicated breast pump that remains in the
patient's room. The breast pump must not be used for any other patient. Upon
determination that the mother does not have Ebola, she may begin
breastfeeding. Upon confirmation of Ebola, the guidance for a mother with
confirmed Ebola should be followed as described above.

**_Safe Handling of Breast Milk:_** When a mother is under investigation for
Ebola, **PPE guidance** should be followed for anyone handling her breast
milk.9,16 The expressed milk of a mother classified as PUI is considered
Category A infectious waste and must be disposed of in accordance with CDC
guidance on waste management.17

**Care of neonates born to asymptomatic mothers with potential exposure to
Ebola virus**

Neonates born to asymptomatic mothers who had potential exposure to Ebola
virus should be placed in the same risk category as their mothers and followed
using the monitoring protocol outlined in the Interim US Guidance for
Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure.18
Neonates can remain in the same room with their mothers, unless the mother or
neonate becomes symptomatic, at which time they should be separated.  Neonates
should be monitored with twice daily rectal temperatures and assessed for
signs of infection and other changes in behavior (e.g., not feeding well,
excessive sleepiness, uncontrollable crying) as signs of many neonatal
infections are often vague. Depending on the risk category, this monitoring
may begin in the hospital and continue at home after discharge. Decisions to
discharge the neonate should be made in conjunction with local public health
authorities. Monitoring should continue until 21 days have elapsed since the
mother's last known exposure to Ebola virus.

**_Routine care_** : For neonates who appear healthy and stable after
delivery, routine newborn care should be provided and non-invasive screening
tests should be conducted.11 Invasive screening tests and immunizations should
be conducted as long as the mother and neonate remain asymptomatic.
Circumcision should be delayed until the 21 days of monitoring have ended.
(See Table 1)

**_Breastfeeding Recommendations:_** A lactating mother who has suspected EVD
should not breastfeed until her Ebola virus infection has been excluded. Donor
breast milk or Ready to Use Infant Formula (RUIF), if available, may be an
acceptable substitute. To establish and maintain breast milk production during
this time, she may express her breast milk. If pumping, she must use a
dedicated breast pump that remains in the patient's room. The breast pump must
not be used for any other patient. Milk positivity should be checked at
regular interval. Upon confirmation of Ebola virus infection, the guidance for
a mother with confirmed Ebola virus infection should be followed as described
above.

**_Safe Handling of Breast Milk in Healthcare Settings:_** When a mother is
under investigation for Ebola virus disease, **PPE guidance** should be
followed for anyone handling her breast milk.9,16 The expressed milk of a
mother classified as PUI is considered Category A infectious waste and must be
disposed of in accordance with CDC guidance on waste management.17

**Involvement of Family Members**

Neonates born to asymptomatic mothers with potential exposure to Ebola virus
should be allowed visitors according to standard hospital protocol. In
accordance with CDC guidance on "Infection Prevention and Control
Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients Under Investigation (PUIs) for Ebola
Virus Disease in U.S. Hospitals," visitors should not be allowed for neonates
born to mothers with confirmed Ebola until the neonate is beyond 21-days of
age and determined to be non-infected with Ebola virus.16  Visitors should not
be allowed for neonates born to mothers under investigation for Ebola until
the mother's Ebola virus infection status is resolved. Exceptions may be
considered on a case-by-case basis (e.g., the father of the baby is dying),
after careful consideration of the risks and benefits and in consultation with
public health authorities. Consideration should be given to the use of visual
observation through a window or through the use of videoconference technology,
instead of in-person visitation.  If an exception is made for in-person
visitation, **PPE guidance** should be followed.9

There is no known risk of transmission of Ebola virus via breastfeeding for
infants born to women who became pregnant **after** recovering from EVD.18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Breastfeeding is safe and should be recommended for women who, after recovering from EVD, become pregnant and give birth.



Table 1. Neonatal care during isolation and monitoring for neonates born of
mothers with confirmed Ebola, under investigation for Ebola, and with
potential exposure to Ebola virus. | **Neonates born to mothers with confirmed
Ebola _and_ neonates born to mothers under investigation for Ebola** |
**Neonates born to asymptomatic mothers with potential exposure to Ebola
virus**  
---|---|---  
**Routine Newborn Care** Includes but is not limited to  clinical examination,
assessment of gestational age, measurement of weight, length, and head
circumference, skin care, bathing, eye prophylaxis and parenteral vitamin K.11
| Should be provided. | Should be provided.  
**Non-invasive Screening Tests** Includes but not limited to critical
congenital heart disease screening, hearing screening. | Should be conducted.
| Should be conducted.  
**Invasive Screening Tests and Immunizations** Includes but not limited to
newborn heel stick screening. | Ebola diagnosis in the neonate, maternal
conditions (e.g. Hepatitis B), and family history, should guide the decision
to perform invasive screening tests and/or immunizations. In the absence of a
negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen in the
neonate, newborn heel stick screening may need to be deferred until the 21 day
isolation period has concluded and/or a negative result of Ebola virus testing
by RT-PCR on a blood specimen has been documented to prevent the exposure of
healthcare workers to Ebola virus and avoid contamination of lab equipment.
Decisions on when invasive newborn screening and immunization can safely be
performed should be made in conjunction with local public health authorities.
| Should be conducted as long as the mother and neonate remain asymptomatic.  
**Circumcision** | Should be delayed until the 21-day isolation period has
concluded and/or a negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood
specimen has been documented to prevent the exposure of healthcare workers to
Ebola virus. Decisions on when circumcision can safely be performed should be
made in conjunction with local public health authorities. | Should be delayed
until the 21 days of monitoring have ended. Decisions on when circumcision can
safely be performed should be made in conjunction with local public health
authorities.  
  
#### Interim Guidance for U.S. Hospitals on the Care of a Neonate Born to a
Mother who is Confirmed to have Ebola, is a Person under Investigation (PUI),
or has been Exposed to Ebola

**Who this is for** : Healthcare professionals working with neonates in labor
and delivery, neonatal intensive care units, newborn nurseries, and other
settings in U.S. hospitals.

**What this is for** : Guidance on how to care for neonates born to mothers
exposed to Ebola virus, PUIs, or with confirmed Ebola.

**How to use this** : This guidance is intended to help U.S. hospitals develop
plans for treating neonates born to PUIs or to mothers with confirmed Ebola.
Note: Ideally, these mothers and neonates will be cared for in Ebola
assessment hospitals (if the mother is a PUI) or Ebola treatment centers (if
the mother is confirmed to have Ebola.)1

**What is known about neonates born to mothers with Ebola?**

While data are limited, reports from Ebola outbreaks indicate that spontaneous
fetal loss is high among pregnant women with Ebola.2-4 Neonates born to women
with Ebola are often premature,5 and typically do not survive for more than a
few weeks.2,6,7 It is not clear whether these deaths are due to transmission
of Ebola virus from mother to the neonate or to other factors that contribute
to high infant mortality rates in Ebola-affected countries;7 however, recent
data have suggested there is in utero transmission of Ebola virus to the
fetus.4 Further, there are limited data on clinical signs at presentation of
Ebola in neonates. In a 1976 outbreak, among 11 neonates born to mothers with
Ebola, seven had fever with few other signs.7 There is no experience with
neonates born to women with Ebola in settings with a highly developed
healthcare system.

There is only one report of neonatal survival in an infant born to a mother
with evidence of EVD infection. This infant was born to a 25-year-old
previously healthy woman who reported onset of EVD symptoms 8 days prior to
delivery. The mother was treated with favipiravir on day 5 of her illness, and
died on the eighth day of her illness (hospital day 5) due to severe vaginal
bleeding after a spontaneous vaginal delivery. Her infant was treated with
monoclonal antibodies (ZMapp), a buffy coat transfusion from an Ebola
survivor, and the antiviral GS-5734. Aside from seizure-like activity, the
infant had no other symptoms and was discharged home. Subsequent weekly
follow-up has demonstrated normal development and growth at 12 months of life.
20

The following guidance is based on the current, yet limited, knowledge and
best practices for infection control.  As more information is learned about
neonates born to mothers with Ebola, this guidance may change. Additionally,
guidance is available from CDC on caring for pregnant women with Ebola in U.S.
hospitals.8

**Care of neonates born to mothers with confirmed Ebola**

Because it is not known if, or when, all neonates born to mothers with Ebola
acquire Ebola virus infection perinatally, neonates delivered of mothers with
confirmed Ebola should be considered a PUI.  Local public health officials and
CDC should be alerted. Neonates should be immediately separated from their
mothers and cared for in an isolation unit for 21 days. Healthcare workers
caring for these neonates should follow recommendations for use of personal
protective equipment (PPE) when caring for patients with Ebola.9 Treatment
decisions should be made by the clinical team caring for the patient. However,
infection control considerations may help to inform providers' decisions and
should influence hospitals' planning processes. If resuscitation is indicated,
it should occur with adherence to isolation precautions, environmental
hygiene, and waste management, as well as worker safety practices that include
the **use of PPE**, and in accordance with the principles of the American
Heart Association (AHA) and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Neonatal
Resuscitation Program.9,10 Decisions to discharge the neonate after 21 days of
monitoring with no signs of infection and a negative result of Ebola virus
testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen should be made in conjunction with local
public health authorities.

**_Care during isolation:_** To date, there have been no reports of healthy
neonates delivered of pregnant women with confirmed Ebola. However, in the
circumstance that a neonate is healthy and stable after delivery of a pregnant
woman with confirmed Ebola, routine newborn care should be provided and non-
invasive screening tests should be conducted.11 (See Table 1) **Appropriate
PPE** should be worn at all times9. Decisions to delay invasive screening
tests and immunizations should consider the diagnosis of Ebola in the neonate,
maternal conditions (such as Hepatitis B), and family history. Circumcision
should be delayed until the 21-day isolation period has concluded and/or a
negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen has been
documented to prevent the exposure of healthcare workers to Ebola virus.
Decisions on when circumcision can safely be performed should be made in
conjunction with local public health authorities. A careful history should be
sought to ensure that the mother was screened for other causes of tropical
febrile illnesses that could contribute to increased morbidity in the neonate,
especially malaria. If the neonate becomes febrile during hospitalization,
local causes of fever, including hospital-acquired bacterial infections and
viral illnesses other than Ebola, should also be sought.

**_Breastfeeding Recommendations:_** In a few situations where breast milk was
tested after recovery from EVD, Ebola virus genetic material was identified in
the breast milk of two different lactating women from 6 to 26 days after
disease onset.13, 14 Because Ebola virus has been shown to be present in
breast milk, neonates born to pregnant women with confirmed Ebola virus
infection should not breastfeed. There is not enough evidence to provide
guidance on when it is safe to resume breastfeeding after the mother recovers
from EVD. Where available, testing of breastmilk for the presence of Ebola
virus genetic material can help to guide decisions about when breastfeeding
can be safely resumed.

Donor breast milk or Ready to Use Infant Formula (RUIF), if available, may be
an acceptable substitute.

**_Safe Handling of Breast Milk in Healthcare Settings:_** Standard
precautions for prevention of transmission of bloodborne pathogens do not
apply to human breast milk in most circumstances.15 However, there are no data
about the risks from exposure to breast milk containing Ebola virus in
healthcare settings. Thus, when a mother has confirmed Ebola virus infection,
**PPE guidance** should be followed for anyone handling her breast milk.9,16
The expressed milk of a mother with confirmed Ebola virus infection is
considered Category A infectious waste and must be disposed of in accordance
with CDC guidance on waste management.17

**Care of neonates born to PUIs**

Neonates born to mothers under investigation for Ebola should be treated as a
PUI until the Ebola virus status of the mother is determined. Neonates should
be immediately separated from their mothers, placed into isolation for 21
days, monitored for Ebola virus infection, and cared for with **appropriate
PPE**.9 If the mother is confirmed to have Ebola, healthcare workers should
follow the guidance above on care of a neonate born to a mother with confirmed
Ebola. If it is determined that the mother does not have Ebola, the neonate
may be removed from isolation and cared for using standard hospital protocol.
However, if the mother later develops signs and symptoms consistent with Ebola
during her 21 days of monitoring, the neonate should be separated immediately,
placed into an isolation unit and cared for with **appropriate PPE** until
Ebola virus infection in the neonate is ruled out .9 If the mother tests
positive for Ebola virus, the 21-day monitoring period would be reset for the
neonate to the date of last contact with the mother. Decisions to discharge
the neonate after 21 days of monitoring with no signs of infection and a
negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen should be
made in conjunction with local public health authorities.

**_Care during isolation_** : Neonates born to mothers under investigation for
Ebola should be cared for using the same guidelines used for neonates born to
mothers with confirmed Ebola, until the Ebola virus status of the mother is
determined.

**_Breastfeeding Recommendations_** : A mother who is under investigation for
Ebola should not breastfeed until her Ebola virus infection status is
resolved. Donor breast milk, if available, may be an acceptable substitute. To
establish and maintain breast milk production, she may express her breast
milk. If pumping, she must use a dedicated breast pump that remains in the
patient's room. The breast pump must not be used for any other patient. Upon
determination that the mother does not have Ebola, she may begin
breastfeeding. Upon confirmation of Ebola, the guidance for a mother with
confirmed Ebola should be followed as described above.

**_Safe Handling of Breast Milk:_** When a mother is under investigation for
Ebola, **PPE guidance** should be followed for anyone handling her breast
milk.9,16 The expressed milk of a mother classified as PUI is considered
Category A infectious waste and must be disposed of in accordance with CDC
guidance on waste management.17

**Care of neonates born to asymptomatic mothers with potential exposure to
Ebola virus**

Neonates born to asymptomatic mothers who had potential exposure to Ebola
virus should be placed in the same risk category as their mothers and followed
using the monitoring protocol outlined in the Interim US Guidance for
Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure.18
Neonates can remain in the same room with their mothers, unless the mother or
neonate becomes symptomatic, at which time they should be separated.  Neonates
should be monitored with twice daily rectal temperatures and assessed for
signs of infection and other changes in behavior (e.g., not feeding well,
excessive sleepiness, uncontrollable crying) as signs of many neonatal
infections are often vague. Depending on the risk category, this monitoring
may begin in the hospital and continue at home after discharge. Decisions to
discharge the neonate should be made in conjunction with local public health
authorities. Monitoring should continue until 21 days have elapsed since the
mother's last known exposure to Ebola virus.

**_Routine care_** : For neonates who appear healthy and stable after
delivery, routine newborn care should be provided and non-invasive screening
tests should be conducted.11 Invasive screening tests and immunizations should
be conducted as long as the mother and neonate remain asymptomatic.
Circumcision should be delayed until the 21 days of monitoring have ended.
(See Table 1)

**_Breastfeeding Recommendations:_** A lactating mother who has suspected EVD
should not breastfeed until her Ebola virus infection has been excluded. Donor
breast milk or Ready to Use Infant Formula (RUIF), if available, may be an
acceptable substitute. To establish and maintain breast milk production during
this time, she may express her breast milk. If pumping, she must use a
dedicated breast pump that remains in the patient's room. The breast pump must
not be used for any other patient. Milk positivity should be checked at
regular interval. Upon confirmation of Ebola virus infection, the guidance for
a mother with confirmed Ebola virus infection should be followed as described
above.

**_Safe Handling of Breast Milk in Healthcare Settings:_** When a mother is
under investigation for Ebola virus disease, **PPE guidance** should be
followed for anyone handling her breast milk.9,16 The expressed milk of a
mother classified as PUI is considered Category A infectious waste and must be
disposed of in accordance with CDC guidance on waste management.17

**Involvement of Family Members**

Neonates born to asymptomatic mothers with potential exposure to Ebola virus
should be allowed visitors according to standard hospital protocol. In
accordance with CDC guidance on "Infection Prevention and Control
Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients Under Investigation (PUIs) for Ebola
Virus Disease in U.S. Hospitals," visitors should not be allowed for neonates
born to mothers with confirmed Ebola until the neonate is beyond 21-days of
age and determined to be non-infected with Ebola virus.16  Visitors should not
be allowed for neonates born to mothers under investigation for Ebola until
the mother's Ebola virus infection status is resolved. Exceptions may be
considered on a case-by-case basis (e.g., the father of the baby is dying),
after careful consideration of the risks and benefits and in consultation with
public health authorities. Consideration should be given to the use of visual
observation through a window or through the use of videoconference technology,
instead of in-person visitation.  If an exception is made for in-person
visitation, **PPE guidance** should be followed.9

There is no known risk of transmission of Ebola virus via breastfeeding for
infants born to women who became pregnant **after** recovering from EVD.18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Breastfeeding is safe and should be recommended for women who, after recovering from EVD, become pregnant and give birth.



**Table 1. Neonatal care during isolation and monitoring for neonates born of
mothers with confirmed Ebola, under investigation for Ebola, and with
potential exposure to Ebola virus.** | **Neonates born to mothers with
confirmed Ebola _and_ neonates born to mothers under investigation for Ebola**
| **Neonates born to asymptomatic mothers with potential exposure to Ebola
virus**  
---|---|---  
**Routine Newborn Care** Includes but is not limited to  clinical examination,
assessment of gestational age, measurement of weight, length, and head
circumference, skin care, bathing, eye prophylaxis and parenteral vitamin K.11
| Should be provided. | Should be provided.  
**Non-invasive Screening Tests**  
  
Includes but not limited to critical congenital heart disease screening,
hearing screening.Should be conducted.Should be conducted. **Invasive
Screening Tests and Immunizations**

Includes but not limited to newborn heel stick screening.Ebola diagnosis in
the neonate, maternal conditions (e.g. Hepatitis B), and family history,
should guide the decision to perform invasive screening tests and/or
immunizations. In the absence of a negative result of Ebola virus testing by
RT-PCR on a blood specimen in the neonate, newborn heel stick screening may
need to be deferred until the 21 day isolation period has concluded and/or a
negative result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen has been
documented to prevent the exposure of healthcare workers to Ebola virus and
avoid contamination of lab equipment. Decisions on when invasive newborn
screening and immunization can safely be performed should be made in
conjunction with local public health authorities.Should be conducted as long
as the mother and neonate remain asymptomatic. **Circumcision** Should be
delayed until the 21-day isolation period has concluded and/or a negative
result of Ebola virus testing by RT-PCR on a blood specimen has been
documented to prevent the exposure of healthcare workers to Ebola virus.
Decisions on when circumcision can safely be performed should be made in
conjunction with local public health authorities.Should be delayed until the
21 days of monitoring have ended. Decisions on when circumcision can safely be
performed should be made in conjunction with local public health authorities.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Interim Guidance for U.S. Hospital Preparedness for Patients Under Investigation (PUIs) or with Confirmed Ebola Virus Disease (EVD): A Framework for a Tiered Approach. Published 2015. Accessed May 29,2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Mupapa K, Mukundu W, Bwaka MA, Kipasa M, De Roo A, Kuvula K, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever and pregnancy. _J Infect Dis_. 1999;179, Suppl 1:S11-12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. Jamieson DJ, Uyeki TM, Callaghan WM, Meaney-Delman D, Rasmussen SA. What obstetrician-gynecologists should know about ebola: a perspective from the centers for disease control and prevention. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2014;124(5):1005-1010.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. Baggi FM, Taybi A, Kurth A, Van Herp M, Di Caro A, Wolfel R, Gunther S, Decroo T, Declerck H, Jonckheere S. Management of pregnant women infected with Ebola virus in a treatment centre in Guinea, June 2014. _Euro Surveill_. 2014;19(49).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5. Wamala JF, Lukwago L, Malimbo M, Nguku P, Yoti Z, Musenero M, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever associated with novel virus strain, Uganda, 2007-2008. _Emerg Infect Dis_. 2010;16(7):1087-1092.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6. Francesconi P, Yoti Z, Declich S, Onek PA, Fabiani M, Olango J, et al. Ebola hemorrhagic fever transmission and risk factors of contacts, Uganda. _Emerg Infect Dis_. 2003;9(11):1430-1437.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7. World Health Organization. Ebola haemorrhagic fever in Zaire, 1976. _Bulletin of the World Health Organization_. 1978;56(2):271-293.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Guidance for Screening and Caring for Pregnant Women with Ebola Virus Disease for Healthcare Providers in U.S. Hospitals. Published 2014. Accessed May 29,2018.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Guidance on Personal Protective Equipment To Be Used by Healthcare Workers During Management of Patients with Ebola Virus Disease in U.S. Hospitals, Including Procedures for Putting On (Donning) and Removing (Doffing). Published 2014. Accessed May 29,2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9. American Academy of Pediatrics and American Heart Association. _NRP Neonatal Resuscitation Textbook 6th Edition (English version)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10. AAP Committe on Fetus and Newborn and ACOG Committee on Obstetric Practice. Care of the Newborn.  _Guidelines for Perinatal Care, 7th Edition_. Elk Grove Village 2012.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Recommendations for Breastfeeding/Infant Feeding in the Conxtext of Ebola. Published 2014. Accessed May 29,2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12. Bausch DG, Towner JS, Dowell SF, Kaducu F, Lukwiya M, Sanchez A, et al. Assessment of the risk of Ebola virus transmission from bodily fluids and fomites. _J Infect Dis_. 2007;196 Suppl 2:S142-147.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13. Nordenstedt H, Bah IE, de la Vega M-A, et al. Ebola Virus in Breast Milk in an Ebola Virus-Positive Mother with Twin Babies, Guinea, 2015. _Emerg Infect Dis._ 2016;22(4):759.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14. Perspectives in Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Update: Universal Precautions for Prevention of Transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus, Hepatitis B Virus, and Other Bloodborne Pathogens in Health-Care Settings. _MMWR_ 1988;37(24):377-388.  Accessed May 29,2018.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients Under Investigation for Ebola Virus Disease in U.S. Hospitals. Published 2014. Accessed May 29,2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ebola-Associated Waste Management. Published 2014. Accessed May 29,2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure. Published 2014. Accessed May 29,2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17. Kamali A, Jamieson DJ, Kpaduwa J, et al. Pregnancy, Labor, and Delivery after Ebola Virus Disease and Implications for Infection Control in Obstetric Services, United States. _Emerg Infect Dis._ 2016;22(7):1156-1161. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2207.160269.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18. Dornemann J, Burzio C, Ronsse A, et al. First Newborn Baby to Receive Experimental Therapies Survives Ebola Virus Disease. _J Infect Dis._ 2017;215:171-174.

Page last reviewed: May 30, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC uses next-
generation sequencing to identify hemorrhagic fever viruses in
bats](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-initiative-badge-filovirus.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

