

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Audio

Minus

Related Pages

Carter Center Ebola PSAsexternal icon

### Podcasts

CDC Ebola Response Update Podcasts

![Ebola Podcasts](/vhf/ebola/images/EbolaResponseUpdate.jpg)

Listen to/view on your computer or download them for information about the
2014 West Africa Ebola outbreak when and where you want it.

### Click on a Spot Title to See Transcript

Audio PSA from First Lady of Guinea, Hadja Djene Kaba Conde

Washing hands well can help protect yourself and your family from Ebola and
also other diseases. Ebola is a very serious disease. But it is possible to
survive and heal with proper medical treatment. If you or someone you know
thinks he has the disease, go to the hospital immediately for treatment. This
is your best chance of surviving the disease and also to protect the people
around you so they do not contract Ebola. Do not risk your life or that of
your family and loved ones. If you think you have ebola, go to the hospital
right away.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

### PSAs for West African Communities in the U.S.

PSA #1: Preparing for a visit with family or friends traveling from West
Africa

#### Will your family or friends from West Africa be visiting soon? Learn
about Ebola.

##### Message 1: Learn about the risk of exposure.

People can only be exposed to Ebola if they have contact with blood or body
fluids of a person sick with Ebola without wearing the right protective
clothing. Body fluids include urine, sweat, saliva, feces, vomit, and semen.
Ebola is not spread through air or water or, in general, through food;
however, in Africa, Ebola may be spread through preparing bushmeat or having
contact with infected animals.

If any of your friends or family members traveled from West Africa and were
exposed to Ebola, call a doctor, even if they don't have symptoms.

Countries in West Africa are working to make sure that people who have Ebola
or have been exposed to Ebola don't get on airplanes. Make sure your friends
and family who are planning to visit know that they shouldn't fly if they are
sick or have been exposed within the previous 21 days.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

##### Message 2: Learn the symptoms of Ebola.

Symptoms of Ebola include fever, severe headache, muscle pain, vomiting,
diarrhea, stomach pain, and unexplained bleeding or bruising. The time from
exposure to Ebola to the time when symptoms appear is 2 to 21 days.

If any of your friends or family members have traveled from West Africa and
were exposed to Ebola, call a doctor even if they don't have symptoms. If
someone has symptoms, call the doctor **before** going to the office or
emergency room and tell the doctor that someone who has recently traveled from
West Africa has symptoms of Ebola. Advance notice will help the doctor provide
care and protect other people. People with symptoms shouldn't go anywhere
except to the doctor's office or hospital and should limit contact with other
people until the doctor says it's okay.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

PSA #2: Returning from a visit with family or friends in West Africa

#### Are you returning from a visit with family and friends in West Africa and
worried that you may have been exposed to Ebola?

##### Message 1: Learn how people are exposed to Ebola.

People can only be exposed to Ebola if they have contact with blood or body
fluids of a person sick with Ebola without wearing the right protective
clothing. Body fluids include urine, sweat, saliva, feces, vomit, and semen.
Ebola is not spread through air or water or, in general, through food;
however, in Africa, Ebola may be spread through preparing bushmeat or having
contact with infected animals.

If you traveled from West Africa and were exposed to Ebola, call a doctor even
if you don't have symptoms. If you weren't exposed to Ebola but were in an
area affected by an outbreak, you should still monitor your health for 21 days
after your return. During this time, you can continue your normal activities,
including work.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

##### Message 2: Learn about monitoring your health after you return.

To monitor your health, take your temperature every morning and evening.

If your temperature is above 101.5 degrees Fahrenheit and you have severe
headache, muscle pain, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, or unexplained
bleeding or bruising, call your doctor immediately. Limit your contact with
other people until the doctor tells you otherwise. Call your doctor **before**
going to the office or emergency room and tell your doctor that you have
recently traveled from West Africa have symptoms of Ebola. Advance notice will
help the doctor provide care and protect other people. Don't go anywhere
except to the doctor's office.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

PSA #3: Preparing for a visit to family or friends in West Africa

#### Learn the latest Ebola outbreak facts and travel alerts before you visit
family and friends in West Africa.

##### Message 1: Learn about the risk of exposure.

CDC urges all U.S. residents to avoid nonessential travel to Guinea, Liberia,
and Sierra Leone because of outbreaks of Ebola in those countries.

If you must travel to one of these countries, you can only be exposed to Ebola
if you have contact with blood or body fluids of a person sick with Ebola
without wearing the right protective clothing. Body fluids include like urine,
sweat, saliva, feces, vomit, and semen. Ebola is not spread through air or
water or, in general, through food; however, in Africa, Ebola may be spread
through preparing bushmeat or having contact with infected animals.

If you are exposed to Ebola, you won't be able to travel on a commercial
flight to the United States for 21 days, in case you develop symptoms. If you
get sick with Ebola, you might need to have a medical evacuation back to the
United States, which can be extremely expensive. The health care systems in
these countries are severely strained by the outbreak, and you may not be able
to get medical care for Ebola or other health problems if you need it. Please
consider delaying your travel until after the Ebola outbreak is under control.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

##### Message 2: Learn how to protect yourself from Ebola when traveling.

If you must travel to an area with an Ebola outbreak, protect yourself. Don't
touch the blood and body fluids of people who are sick with Ebola or items
that may have come in contact with blood and body fluids. Practice careful
hygiene by washing your hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand
sanitizer. Avoid contact with bats and nonhuman primates like monkeys and
don't prepare meat from these animals. Avoid funeral or burial rituals that
require handling the body in case that person had Ebola.

Make a plan before your trip for how you will get health care if you need it.
If you are being treated for a health problem other than Ebola, avoid
hospitals where Ebola patients are being treated. The U.S. Embassy or
consulate is often able to provide advice on healthcare facilities, but you
should be aware that health care might not be available in some countries
right now.

Seek medical care immediately if you develop fever, headache, muscle pain,
diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain, or unexplained bruising or bleeding, which
could be symptoms of Ebola. Limit your contact with other people and don't go
anywhere other than a doctor's office or hospital.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

PSA #4: Well but worried about family and friends in West Africa

#### Are you worried about your family and friends who live in countries with
Ebola outbreaks?

##### Message 1: Learn how your family and friends can protect themselves.

If your family or friends live in a country with an Ebola outbreak, advise
them to take steps to protect themselves. Tell them to practice careful
hygiene by washing their hands often with soap and water or an alcohol-based
hand sanitizer. Don't touch the blood and body fluids of people sick with
Ebola or items that may have come in contact with an infected person's blood
or body fluids. Avoid funeral or burial rituals that require handling the body
in case that person had Ebola. Avoid contact with bats and nonhuman primates
like monkeys. Don't prepare meat from these animals.

Advise your family or friends to seek medical care immediately if they develop
fever, headache, muscle pain, diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain, or unexplained
bruising or bleeding, which are symptoms of Ebola. Someone with symptoms
should limit their contact with other people and only go places where public
health authorities say it's okay.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

##### Message 2: Learn how Ebola spreads.

Ebola is spread when a sick person's blood or body fluids, such as, urine,
sweat, saliva, feces, vomit, and semen, enter another person's body through
broken skin or through the eyes, nose, or mouth. The virus also can spread
through contact with sharp objects, like needles and syringes, contaminated
with infected body fluids.

Ebola isn't spread through air or water or, in general, through food; however,
in Africa, Ebola may be spread through preparing bushmeat or contact with
infected animals.

For more information, call 1-800-CDC-INFO or visit c-d-c-dot-gov-slash-ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hausa Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullah Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

### Radio Spots for West African Communities: Various Languages

Spot 1. English: "It's probably malaria, not Ebola!" --- French: « C'est
probablement la malaria, pas Ebola! »

**English**

One difficult thing about Ebola is that the signs - sudden fever, diarrhea,
vomitting - these are shared by other diseases. So, perhaps it's not Ebola. It
could be malaria. Or perhaps typhoid fever. So, it's quite difficult for
anyone, except a health care worker, to say definitively 'Yes, it is Ebola,'
or 'No, it is not Ebola.'

So, if you have sudden fever, diarrhoea or vomiting, you should go to the
health centre, because, no matter the cause, you can receive help there.

And remember: with the right information, and together with our health care
workers, we can protect ourselves from Ebola.

**French**

Une des difficultes au sujet d'Ebola, c'est que les symptomes: fievre
soudaine, diarrhee, vomissements, sont communs a d'autres maladies. Donc, ce
n'est peut-etre pas Ebola. C'est peut-etre la malaria ou la fievre typhoide.
C'est assez difficile pour quiconque, a l'exception d'un professionnel de la
sante, de dire de façon definitive « Oui, c'est Ebola » ou «Non, ce n'est pas
Ebola ».

Donc, si vous souffrez d'une fievre soudaine, de diarrhee, ou de vomissements,
vous devez vous rendre dans un centre de sante, car, qu'elle qu'en soit la
raison, vous pouvez y recevoir de l'aide.

Rappelez-vous : avec les bonnes informations et avec l'aide de nos
professionnels de la sante, nous pouvons nous proteger contre Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fulani (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullar Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guerze (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kono Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Krio Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limba Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Loko Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Madingo Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malinke (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mende Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sousou (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Susu Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Themne Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toma (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wolof Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

Spot 2. English: Where does Ebola live? --- French: Ou Ebola est-il present ?

**English**

The Ebola virus lives in the bats and does not make them sick. The Ebola virus
is released from the bats from time to time and can infect monkeys,
chimpanzees, and humans, and other wild animals.

So, can Ebola be caused by witchcraft or a curse, or any other cause? No.
Remember: the Ebola virus lives in bats.

And remember: with the right information, and together with our health care
workers, we can protect ourselves from Ebola.

**French**

Le virus Ebola est present chez les chauves-souris et ne les rend pas malades.
Le virus Ebola est parfois libere par les chauves-souris et peut infecter les
singes, les chimpanzes, d'autres animaux sauvages, et aussi les etres humains.

Est-ce qu'Ebola peut etre cause par la sorcellerie ou une malediction, ou
toute autre cause? Non. Rappelez-vous : Ebola est present chez les chauves-
souris.

Rappelez-vous : avec les bonnes informations et avec l'aide de nos
professionnels de la sante, nous pouvons nous proteger contre Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fulani (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullar Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guerze (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kono Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Krio Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limba Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Loko Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Madingo Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malinke (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mende Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sousou (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Susu Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Themne Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toma (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wolof Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

Spot 3. English: If there is no fever, there is no Ebola --- French: S'il n'y
a pas de fievre, il n'y a pas Ebola

**English**

If a person has no fever, he or she can move about, touch others, ride the
bus, take a taxi. And they cannot pass Ebola to other people. A person who
develops a fever, however, can pass Ebola to others. Once they have recovered
and been discharged, they are free from Ebola, and should be welcomed back
into the family and the community.

And remember: with the right information, and together with our health care
workers, we can protect ourselves from Ebola.

**French**

Si une personne n'a pas de fievre, elle peut se deplacer librement, toucher
d'autres personnes, monter dans le bus, ou prendre un taxi. Elle ne peut pas
transmettre Ebola a d'autres personnes. Mais une personne qui developpe une
fievre peut transmettre Ebola a d'autres personnes.

Une fois guerie et autorisee a quitter l'hopital, cette personne est liberee
du virus et peut a nouveau etre accueillie dans sa famille et sa communaute.

Rappelez-vous : avec les bonnes informations et avec l'aide de nos
professionnels de la sante, nous pouvons nous proteger contre Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fulani (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullar Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guerze (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kono Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Krio Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limba Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Loko Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Madingo Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malinke (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mende Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sousou (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Susu Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Themne Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toma (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wolof Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

Spot 4. English: Who is at risk for Ebola? --- French: Quelles sont les
personnes a risque pour Ebola ?

**English**

Who is at risk of getting Ebola? It's the people who are in contact with those
who are sick from Ebola, including family members and health care workers. And
also people who are in contact with wild animals, including bats and monkeys,
or fruit partially eaten by bats (bat mot).

Do people have any risk of getting Ebola by riding the bus? No.  
Do people have any risk of getting Ebola by wearing a helmet? No.

And remember: with the right information, and together with our health care
workers, we can protect ourselves from Ebola.

**French**

Qui risque de contracter le virus Ebola ? Ce sont les personnes en contact
avec les malades atteints par Ebola, y compris les membres de la famille et
les professionnels de la sante. Ce sont aussi les personnes en contact avec
les animaux sauvages, notamment les chauves-souris et les singes, ou les
fruits qui ont ete en partie manges par les chauves-souris (mot chauve-
souris).

Les personnes risquent-elles de contracter le virus Ebola en prenant le bus ?
Non.

Les personnes risquent-elles de contracter le virus Ebola en portant un casque
? Non.

Rappelez-vous : avec les bonnes informations et avec l'aide de nos
professionnels de la sante, nous pouvons nous proteger contre Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fulani (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullar Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guerze (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kono Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Krio Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limba Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Loko Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Madingo Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malinke (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mende Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sousou (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Susu Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Themne Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toma (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wolof Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

Spot 5. English: Ebola transmission within the family --- French: La
transmission d'Ebola au sein de la famille

**English**

Many times, when a man becomes sick with Ebola, it is the woman who cares for
him. And then what happens? Then, the woman becomes sick. And then who cares
for the woman? The grand-mother or a family member.

Then, the children can become infected, as well as others having direct
contact with the sick person.

This is how Ebola can pass from one person to another in the community.

And remember: with the right information, and together with our health care
workers, we can protect ourselves from Ebola.

**French**

Tres souvent, lorsqu'un homme contracte Ebola, c'est sa femme qui prend soin
de lui. Et qu'arrive-t-il ensuite ? Ensuite, sa femme devient malade. Qui
prend alors soin de la femme ? La grand-mere ou un membre de la famille.

Puis, les enfants peuvent etre infectes, ainsi que d'autres personnes en
contact direct avec la personne malade.

C'est comme ça qu'Ebola peut etre transmis d'une personne a une autre au sein
d'une communaute.

Rappelez-vous : avec les bonnes informations et avec l'aide de nos
professionnels de la sante, nous pouvons nous proteger contre Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fulani (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullar Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guerze (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kono Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Krio Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limba Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Loko Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Madingo Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malinke (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mende Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sousou (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Susu Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Themne Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toma (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wolof Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

Spot 6. English: Ebola virus is very fragile and easily destroyed --- French:
Le virus Ebola est tres fragile et se detruit facilement

**English**

Here is some good news about Ebola: although it is dangerous, **Ebola virus**
is easily destroyed/(fragile).

Heat will destroy **Ebola virus**. Sunlight will destroy it. Light will
destroy it. Bleach and laundry detergent will destroy it.

All these will kill **Ebola virus**.

And remember: with the right information, and together with our health care
workers, we can protect ourselves from Ebola.

**French**

Voici des bonnes nouvelles a propos d'Ebola : bien qu'il soit dangereux, le
virus d'Ebola peut facilement etre detruit car il est fragile.

La chaleur detruit le virus d'Ebola. La lumiere du soleil le detruit. La
lumiere le detruit. L'eau de chlore et le detergent a lessive le detruisent.

Tous ces elements detruisent le virus Ebola.

Rappelez-vous : avec les bonnes informations et avec l'aide de nos
professionnels de la sante, nous pouvons nous proteger contre Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **English** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **French** Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fulani (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fullar Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guerze (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kissi (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Kono Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Krio Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limba Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Loko Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Madingo Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Malinke (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mende Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sousou (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Susu Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Themne Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toma (Guinean) Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wolof Listenmedia icon | Download ZIP

Page last reviewed: July 9, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is Ebola Virus Disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * History of Ebola Virus Diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Years of Ebola Virus Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Virus Disease Distribution Map: Cases of Ebola Virus Disease in Africa Since 1976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Cost of the Ebola Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak Distribution in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa Epidemic Curves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Vaccineplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Handwashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2018 Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congoplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola By The Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola Outbreak Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Communication and Awareness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2018 Democratic Republic of Congo, Bikoroplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Map of Ebola-Affected Health Zones in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Bas UÃ©lÃ© District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreak Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreak Response Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Itâs not over until itâs over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long flights, long days mark vaccine campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Roads to Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How community feedback shapes the Ebola response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola outbreak becomes a class act for EIS officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In the shadow of the volcano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Congo-born CDC photographer rooting for Ebola responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fighting Ebola on familiar ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Thereâs no silver bullet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Strength In Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Responding to a case of Ebola in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fighting Ebola: Every day is a Monday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting the Health of Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborating across Time Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Being Creative in Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Crunching the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting the Laboratory in Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting the Ministry of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting Ugandaâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watching DRCâs Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Virus Disease for Cliniciansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Acute Hemodialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling Human Remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Neonatal Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluating Patientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs: Screening for Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Discharging Persons Under Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluating Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Management of Survivors of Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Messages for the Care of Survivors of Ebola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleaning and Disinfectingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hospital Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Waste Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Survivability of Ebola Virus in Medical Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling Ebola-Associated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Emergency Services plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Department Guidance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Department Preparedness Training 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EMS Systems and 9-1-1 Answering Points 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Air Medical Transport SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transport of Pediatric Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Interfacility Transport Guidance plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Patient Handoff SOP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Air-to-Ground Patient Handoff SOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ambulance Decontamination 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Non US Healthcare Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Injury from Injections and Sharps in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hand Hygiene in Non-U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rationale and Considerations for Chlorine Use in Infection Control for Non- U.S. General Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Specimen Collection, Transport, and Submission 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Packing and Shipping Specimens 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Managing and Testing Routine Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Non-CDC Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For Public Health Plannersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hospital Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Frontline Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Ebola Assessment Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preparing Ebola Treatment Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Confirmed Ebola Patients or Clinically Unstable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Clinically Stable PUIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola PPE Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PPE Supply Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * PPE Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cleaning and Decontaminationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for the U.S. Residence Decontamination for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) and Removal of Contaminated Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQs: Interim Guidance for Handling Untreated Sewage from Suspected or Confirmed Individuals with Ebola in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Cleaning, Disinfection, and Waste Disposal in Commercial Passenger Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notes on the Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Ebola Virus Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics & Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Virus Ecology Graphic

![      illustration of colorful DNA strand behind the text - CDC laboratories
produce first genomic sequence of Liberian Ebola](/amd/images/amd-badges/amd-
initiative-badge-ebola.jpg)

![MMWR Ebola Reports](/vhf/ebola/images/mmwr-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

