Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003295.htm    
                                Description: Hypermobile joints are joints that move beyond the normal range with little effort. Joints most commonly affected are the elbows, wrists, fingers, and knees.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypermobile joints

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003295.htm

# Hypermobile joints

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypermobile joints are joints that move beyond the normal range with little
effort. Joints most commonly affected are the elbows, wrists, fingers, and
knees.

## Considerations

Children's joints are often more flexible than adults' joints. But children
with hypermobile joints can flex and extend their joints beyond what is
considered normal. The movement is done without too much force and without
discomfort.

Thick bands of tissue called ligaments help hold joints together and keep them
from moving too much or too far. In children with hypermobility syndrome,
those ligaments are loose or weak. This may lead to:

      * Arthritis, which may develop over time
      * Dislocated joints, which is a separation of two bones where they meet at a joint
      * Sprains and strains 

Children with hypermobile joints also often have flat feet.

## Causes

Hypermobile joints often occur in otherwise healthy and normal children. This
is called benign hypermobility syndrome.

Rare medical conditions associated with hypermobile joints include:

      * Cleidocranial dysostosis (abnormal development of bones in the skull and clavicle)
      * Down syndrome (genetic condition in which a person has 47 chromosomes instead of the usual 46)
      * Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (group of inherited disorders marked by extremely loose joints)
      * Marfan syndrome (connective tissue disorder)
      * Mucopolysaccharidosis type IV (disorder in which body is missing or doesn't have enough of a substance needed to break down long chains of sugar molecules) 

## Home Care

There is no specific care for this condition. People with hypermobile joints
have an increased risk for joint dislocation and other problems.

Extra care may be needed to protect the joints. Ask your health care provider
for recommendations.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * A joint suddenly appears misshapen
      * An arm or leg suddenly does not move properly
      * Pain occurs when moving a joint
      * The ability to move a joint suddenly changes or decreases 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Hypermobile joints often occur with other symptoms that, taken together,
define a specific syndrome or condition. A diagnosis is based on a family
history, medical history, and a complete physical exam. The exam includes a
close look at your muscles and bones.

The provider will ask about the symptoms, including:

      * When did you first notice the problem?
      * Is it getting worse or more noticeable?
      * Are there other symptoms, such as swelling or redness around the joint?
      * Is there any history of joint dislocation, difficulty walking, or difficulty using the arms? 

Further tests may be done.

## Alternative Names

Joint hypermobility; Loose joints; Hypermobility syndrome

## Images

      * ![Hypermobile joints](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9423t.jpg)Hypermobile joints

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Musculoskeletal system.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

Clinch J, Rogers V. Hypermobility syndrome. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM,
Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 216.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

