Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003261.htm    
                                Description: Joint pain can affect one or more joints.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Joint pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003261.htm

# Joint pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Joint pain can affect one or more joints.

## Causes

Joint pain can be caused by many types of injuries or conditions. It may be
linked to arthritis, bursitis, and muscle pain. No matter what causes it,
joint pain can be very bothersome. Some things that can cause joint pain are:

      * Autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus
      * Bursitis
      * Chondromalacia patellae
      * Crystals in the joint -- gout (especially found in the big toe) and CPPD arthritis (pseudogout)
      * Infections caused by a virus
      * Injury, such as a fracture
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Osteomyelitis (bone infection)
      * Septic arthritis (joint infection)
      * Tendinitis
      * Unusual exertion or overuse, including strains or sprains

Signs of joint inflammation include:

      * Swelling
      * Warmth
      * Tenderness
      * Redness
      * Pain with movement

## Home Care

Follow your health care provider's advice for treating the cause of the pain.

For non-arthritic joint pain, both rest and exercise are important. Warm
baths, massage, and stretching exercises should be used as often as possible.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) may help the soreness feel better.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen or naproxen
may help relieve pain and swelling. Talk to your provider before giving
aspirin or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen to children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

      * You have fever that is not associated with flu symptoms.
      * You have lost 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) or more without trying (unintended weight loss).
      * Your joint pain lasts for more than several days.
      * You have severe, unexplained joint pain and swelling, particularly if you have other unexplained symptoms. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will ask you questions about your medical history and symptoms,
including:

      * Which joint hurts? Is the pain on one side or both sides?
      * What started the pain and how often have you had it? Have you had it before?
      * Did this pain begin suddenly and severely, or slowly and mildly?
      * Is the pain constant or does it come and go? Has the pain become more severe?
      * Have you injured your joint?
      * Have you had an illness, rash, or fever?
      * Does resting or moving make the pain better or worse? Are certain positions more or less comfortable? Does keeping the joint elevated help?
      * Do medicines, massage, or applying heat reduce the pain?
      * What other symptoms do you have?
      * Is there any numbness?
      * Can you bend and straighten the joint? Does the joint feel stiff?
      * Are your joints stiff in the morning? If so, for how long does the stiffness last?
      * What makes the stiffness better?

A physical exam will be done, looking for signs of joint abnormality
including:

      * Swelling
      * Tenderness
      * Warmth
      * Pain with motion
      * Abnormal motion such as limitation, loosening of the joint, grating sensation

Tests that may be done include:

      * CBC or blood differential
      * C-reactive protein
      * Joint x-ray
      * Sedimentation rate
      * Blood tests specific to various autoimmune disorders
      * Joint aspiration to obtain joint fluid for culture, white cell count and examination for crystals

Treatments may include:

      * Medicines such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) including ibuprofen, naproxen, or indomethacin
      * Injection of a corticosteroid medicine into the joint
      * Antibiotics and often surgical drainage, in case of infection (usually require hospitalization)
      * Physical therapy for muscle and joint rehabilitation

## Alternative Names

Stiffness in a joint; Pain - joints; Arthralgia; Arthritis

## Images

      * ![Skeleton](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1115t.jpg)Skeleton
      * ![The structure of a joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19399t.jpg)The structure of a joint

## References

Bykerk VP, Crow MK. Approach to the patient with rheumatic disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 256.

Davis JM, Moder KG, Hunder GG. History and physical examination of the
musculoskeletal system. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB,
O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Schaible H-G. Joint pain: basic mechanisms. In: McMahon SB, Koltzenburg M,
Tracey I, Turk DC, eds. _Wall & Melzack's Textbook of Pain_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 44.

## Review Date 1/29/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

