Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diets.html    
                                Description: Many people follow diets to lose weight. Some diets are fad or crash diets that rarely lead to long term weight loss. Learn about what works.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diets

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diets.html

#  Diets

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

If you are overweight or have obesity, losing weight can improve your health.
It might also help you prevent weight-related diseases, such as heart disease,
diabetes, arthritis and some cancers. A healthy diet is an important part of a
weight-loss program. It

    * May include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and fat-free or low-fat milk and milk products
    * May include lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, eggs and nuts
    * Goes easy on saturated fats, trans fat, cholesterol, salt (sodium), and added sugars

The key to losing weight is to burn more calories than you eat and drink. A
diet can help you to do this through portion control. There are many different
types of diets. Some, like the Mediterranean diet, describe a traditional way
of eating from a specific region. Others, like the DASH eating plan or a diet
to lower cholesterol, were designed for people who have certain health
problems. But they may also help you to lose weight. There are also fad or
crash diets that severely restrict calories or the types of food you are
allowed to eat. They may sound promising, but they rarely lead to permanent
weight loss. They also may not provide all of the nutrients your body needs.

In addition to a diet, adding exercise into your daily life can help you to
lose weight.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Diets that Support Weight Loss and Management (Hormone Health Network)
    * Healthy Recipes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * No-Fad Diet Tips (American Heart Association)
    * Weight Loss: Choosing a Diet That's Right for You (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Weight-Loss and Nutrition Myths ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Dieting and Gallstones ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Enjoy Your Food, but Eat Less: 10 Tips to Enjoying Your Meal (Department of Agriculture) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Glycemic Index Diet: What's Behind the Claims (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Just Enough for You: About Food Portions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Stop the Cravings! (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)
    * The Truth Behind Weight Loss Ads (Federal Trade Commission) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Atkins Diet: What's Behind the Claims? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * DASH Diet: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Energy Density and Weight Loss: Feel Full on Fewer Calories (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Low-Carb Diet: Could It Help You Lose Weight? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Myth vs. Fact: The Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) Diet (Endocrine Society, Hormone Health Network)
    * To Fast or Not to Fast: Does When You Eat Matter? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * MyPlate Kitchen (Department of Agriculture)
    * Portion Distortion! Do You Know How Food Portions Have Changed in 20 Years? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diet, Reducing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Weight Loss ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Associations of fat and carbohydrate intake with cardiovascular disease and mortality:...
    * Article: The Pritikin Diet.
    * Article: Ketogenic Diets.
    * Diets -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Definitions of Health Terms: Nutrition ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Glossary of Terms Related to Healthy Eating, Obesity, Physical Activity, and Weight Control ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Find an Expert

    * Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
    * Find a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Weight Management and Healthy Living Tips ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Children

    * Keeping Portions Under Control (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Are Detox Diets Safe? (Nemours Foundation)
    * Deal with Diets (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Fad Diets vs. Healthy Weight Management: A Guide for Teens (Children's Hospital Boston)
    * Low-Carb Diet (Children's Hospital Boston) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Diets (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Healthy Weights for Healthy Older Adults (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)

## Patient Handouts

    * 10 ways to cut 500 calories a day (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Calorie count - Alcoholic beverages (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Calorie count - fast food (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Calorie count - sodas and energy drinks (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diet for rapid weight loss (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diet myths and facts (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diet-boosting foods (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diet-busting foods (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Mediterranean diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diets](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diets.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * 10 ways to cut 500 calories a day
    * Calorie count - Alcoholic beverages
    * Calorie count - fast food
    * Calorie count - sodas and energy drinks
    * Diet for rapid weight loss
    * Diet myths and facts
    * Diet-boosting foods
    * Diet-busting foods
    * Mediterranean diet

## Related Health Topics

    * Child Nutrition
    * DASH Eating Plan
    * Diabetic Diet
    * Nutrition
    * Nutrition for Older Adults
    * Vegetarian Diet
    * Weight Control

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

