Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003173.htm    
                                Description: &#10;Limited range of motion is a term meaning that a joint or body part cannot move through its normal range of motion.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Limited range of motion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003173.htm

# Limited range of motion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Limited range of motion is a term meaning that a joint or body part cannot
move through its normal range of motion.

## Considerations

Motion may be limited because ofÂ a problem within the joint, swelling of
tissue around the joint,Â stiffness of the muscles, orÂ pain.

## Causes

A sudden loss of range of motion may be due to:

      * Dislocation of a joint
      * Fracture of an elbow or other joint
      * Infected joint (hip is most common in children)
      * Legg-CalvÃ©-Perthes disease (in boys 4 to 10 years old)
      * Nursemaid elbow, an injury to the elbow joint (in young children)
      * Tearing of certain structures within the joint (such as the meniscus or cartilage) 

Loss of motion may occur if you damage the bones within a joint. This may
happen if you have:

      * Ankylosing spondylitis (chronic form of arthritis)
      * Broken a joint bone in the past
      * Frozen shoulder
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Rheumatoid arthritis

Brain, nerve, or muscle disorders can damage the nerves, tendons, and muscles,
and can cause loss of motion. Some of these disorders include:

      * Cerebral palsy (group of disorders that involve brain and nervous system functions)
      * Congenital torticollis (wry neck)
      * Muscular dystrophy(group of inherited disorders that cause muscle weakness)
      * Stroke or brain injury
      * Volkmann contracture (deformity of the hand, fingers, and wrist caused by injury to the muscles of the forearm) 

## Home Care

Your health care provider may suggest exercises to increase muscle strength
and flexibility.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you have difficulty moving or
extending a joint.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

TheÂ provider will examine youÂ and ask about your medical history and
symptoms.

You may need joint x-rays and spine x-rays. Laboratory tests may be done.

Physical therapy may be recommended.

## Images

      * ![The structure of a joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19399t.jpg)The structure of a joint
      * ![Limited range of motion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9530t.jpg)Limited range of motion

## References

Magee DJ. Primary care assessment. In: Magee DJ, ed. _Orthopedic Physical
Assessment_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 17.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

