Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000761.htm    
                                Description: Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) and electronic hookahs (e-hookahs) allow the user to inhale a vapor that may contain nicotine as well as other flavors and chemicals. Many e-cigarettes and e-hookahs    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

E-cigarettes and E-hookahs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000761.htm

# E-cigarettes and E-hookahs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) and electronic hookahs (e-hookahs) allow
the user to inhale a vapor that may contain nicotine as well as other flavors
and chemicals. Many e-cigarettes and e-hookahs look just like real cigarettes
or pipes. But some look like pens or USB memory sticks. Not much is known yet
about the benefits and risks of these products.

## How They Work

There are many types of e-cigarettes and e-hookahs. Most have a battery-
operated heating device. When you inhale, the heater turns on and heats a
liquid cartridge into a vapor. The cartridge may contain nicotine or other
flavors or chemicals. It also contains glycerol or propylene glycol (PEG),
which looks like smoke when you exhale. Each cartridge can be used a few
times. Cartridges come in many flavors.

## Uses

The makers of e-cigarettes and e-hookahs market their products for several
uses:

      *  **To use as a safer alternative to tobacco products.** The makers claim their products do not contain the harmful chemicals found in regular cigarettes. They say this makes their products safer choices for those who already smoke and don't want to quit.
      *  **To "smoke" without getting addicted.** Consumers can choose cartridges that do not contain nicotine, the addictive substance found in tobacco.
      *  **To "smoke" in areas where smoking is banned.** Since there are not yet bans against e-cigarettes in many places, these products allow smokers to "smoke" in smoke-free areas.
      *  **To use as a tool to help you quit smoking.** Some companies tout their products as a way to quit smoking. More studies are needed to prove this claim. 

E-cigarettes have not been fully tested. So, it is not yet known if any of
these claims are true.

## Safety Concerns

Health experts have many concerns about the safety of e-cigarettes and
e-hookahs.

      * There is no evidence that shows these products are safe to use over the long term.
      * There are chemicals that can cause cancer in some of the products they tested. One sample contained a toxic ingredient found in antifreeze.
      * The ingredients in e-cigarettes are not labeled, so it is not clear what's in them.
      * It is not known how much nicotine is in each cartridge. The FDA found nicotine in one sample that was labeled nicotine-free.
      * It is not known if these devices are a safe or effective way to quit smoking.
      * Non-smokers may start using e-cigarettes because they believe these devices are safe. 

## E-cigarettes and Children

Many experts also have concerns about the effects of these products on
children.

      * These products are sold in flavors that may appeal to children and teens, such as chocolate and key lime pie. This could lead to more nicotine addiction in children.
      * Teens who use e-cigarettes may be more likely to take up smoking regular cigarettes. 

## More Studies are Needed

There is not enough information about e-cigarettes to know if they are safe or
harmful. Until more is known about their long-term effects, the FDA and the
American Cancer Association recommend steering clear of these devices.

If you are trying to quit smoking, your best bet is to use FDA-approved
smoking cessation aids. These include:

      * Nicotine gum
      * Lozenges
      * Skin patches
      * Nasal spray and oral inhaled products 

## When to Call the Doctor

If you need more help quitting, talk with your health care provider.

## Alternative Names

Electronic cigarettes; Electronic hookahs; Vaping; Electronic nicotine
delivery systems; Smoking - electronic cigarettes

## References

Benowitz NL, Brunetta PG. Smoking hazards and cessation. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Callahan-Lyon P. Electronic cigarettes: human health effects. _Tob Control_.
2014;23(Suppl 2):ii36-ii40. PMID: 24732161
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24732161.

Soneji S, Barrington-Trimis JL, Wills TA, et al. Association between initial
use of e-cigarettes and subsequent cigarette smoking among adolescents and
young adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis. _JAMA Pediatr_.
2017;171(8):788-797. PMID: 28654986 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28654986.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Vaporizers, e-cigarettes, and other
electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS).
www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/Labeling/ProductsIngredientsComponents/ucm456610.htm.
Updated May 2, 2018. Accessed May 15, 2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * E-Cigarettes

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

