Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001394.htm    
                                Description: Ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare childhood disease. It affects the brain and other parts of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ataxia - telangiectasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001394.htm

# Ataxia - telangiectasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare childhood disease. It affects the brain and
other parts of the body.

Ataxia refers to uncoordinated movements, such as walking. Telangiectasias are
enlarged blood vessels (capillaries) just below the surface of the skin.
Telangiectasias appear as tiny, red, spider-like veins.

## Causes

Ataxia-telangiectasia is inherited. This means it is passed down through
families. It is an autosomal recessive trait. Both parents must provide a copy
of a nonworking gene for the child to have symptoms of the disorder.

The disease results from a mutation in the _ATM_ gene. This gene provides
instructions for making a protein that helps control the rate at which cells
grow and divide. Defects in this gene can lead to abnormal cell death around
the body, including the part of the brain that helps coordinate movement.

Boys and girls are equally affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Decreased coordination of movements (ataxia) in late childhood thatÂ can include ataxic gait (cerebellar ataxia), jerky gait, unsteadiness 
      * Decreasing mental development, slows or stops after age 10 to 12
      * Delayed walking
      * Discoloration of skin areas exposed to sunlight
      * Discoloration of skin (coffee-with-milk-colored spots)
      * Enlarged blood vessels in skin of nose, ears, and inside of the elbow and knee
      * Enlarged blood vessels in the whites of the eyes
      * Jerky or abnormal eye movements (nystagmus) late in the disease
      * Premature graying of the hair
      * Seizures
      * Sensitivity to radiation, including x-rays
      * Severe respiratory infections that keep coming back (recurring) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The exam may show signs
of the following:

      * Tonsils, lymph nodes, and spleen below normal size
      * Decreased to absent deep tendon reflexes
      * Delayed or absent physical and sexual development
      * Growth failure
      * Mask-like face
      * Multiple skin coloring and texture changes 

Possible tests include:

      * Alpha fetoprotein
      * B and T cell screen
      * Carcinoembryonic antigen
      * Genetic testing to look for mutations in the ATM gene
      * Glucose tolerance test
      * Serum immunoglobulin levels (IgE, IgA)
      * X-rays to look at the size of the thymus gland 

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for ataxia-telangiectasia. Treatment is
directed at specific symptoms.

## Support Groups

Ataxia Telangiectasia Children's Project: www.atcp.org

National Ataxia Foundation (NAF): ataxia.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early death is common, but life expectancy varies.

Because people with this condition are very sensitive to radiation, they
should never be given radiation therapy, and no unnecessary x-rays should be
done.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cancer, such as lymphoma
      * Diabetes
      * Kyphosis
      * Progressive movement disorder that leads to wheelchair use
      * Scoliosis
      * Severe, recurrent lung infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child develops symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Couples with a family history of this condition who are considering pregnancy
may consider genetic counseling.

Parents of a child with this disorder may have a slight increased risk for
cancer. They should have genetic counseling and increased cancer screenings.

## Alternative Names

Louis-Bar syndrome

## Images

      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
      * ![Telangiectasia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19509t.jpg)Telangiectasia

## References

Gatti R, Perlman S. Ataxia-telangiectasia. _GeneReviews_. 2016. PMID: 20301790
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301790. Updated October 27, 2016. Accessed July
30, 2019.

Martin KL. Vascular disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 669.

Varma R, Williams SD. Neurology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Ataxia
Telangiectasia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AtaxiaTelangiectasia_thumb.jpg)Ataxia
Telangiectasia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

