Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000794.htm    
                                Description: Inhalants are chemical vapors that are breathed in on purpose to get high.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use - inhalants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000794.htm

# Substance use - inhalants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Inhalants are chemical vapors that are breathed in on purpose to get high.

Inhalant use became popular in the 1960s with teens who sniffed glue. Since
then, other kinds of inhalants have become popular. Inhalants are used mostly
by younger teens and school-age children, although adults sometimes also use
them.

Street names for inhalants include air blast, bold, chroming, discorama, glad,
hippie crack, moon gas, oz, poor man's pot, rush, snappers, whippets, and
whiteout.

## Types of Inhalants

Many household products have chemicals that are volatile. Volatile means the
chemical produces vapors, which can be breathed in (inhaled). Common types of
abused inhalants are:

      * Aerosols, such as air freshener, deodorant, fabric protector, hair spray, vegetable oil spray, and spray paint.
      * Gases, such as butane (lighter fluid), computer cleaning spray, freon, helium, nitrous oxide (laughing gas), which is found in whipped cream containers, and propane.
      * Nitrites, which are no longer sold legally. When nitrites are bought illegally, they are often labeled "leather cleaner," "liquid aroma," "room odorizer," or "video head cleaner."
      * Solvents, such as correction fluid, degreaser, fast-drying glue, felt-tip marker, gasoline, nail polish remover, and paint thinner. 

## Ways Inhalants are Used

Inhalants are breathed in through the mouth or nose. Slang terms for these
methods are:

      * Bagging. Inhaling the substance after it has been sprayed or put into a paper or plastic bag.
      * Ballooning. Inhaling a gas from a balloon.
      * Dusting. Spraying an aerosol into the nose or mouth.
      * Glading. Inhaling air-freshener aerosols.
      * Huffing. Inhaling from a rag soaked with the substance and then held to the face or stuffed in the mouth.
      * Sniffing. Inhaling a substance directly through the nose.
      * Snorting. Inhaling a substance directly through the mouth.

Other things that are often used to hold inhalant chemicals include empty soda
cans, empty perfume bottles, and toilet paper tubes stuffed with rags or
toilet paper soaked with the chemical.

## Effects of Inhalants on the Brain

When inhaled, the chemicals are absorbed by the lungs. Within seconds, the
chemicals go to the brain, causing the person to feel intoxicated, or high.
The high usually involves feeling excited and happy, a feeling similar to
being drunk from drinking alcohol.

Some inhalants cause the brain to release dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical
that is involved with mood and thinking. It is also called the feel-good brain
chemical.

Because the high lasts only a few minutes, users try to make the high last
longer by inhaling repeatedly for several hours.

Nitrites are different from other inhalants. Nitrites make blood vessels
larger and the heart beat faster. This causes the person to feel very warm and
excited. Nitrites are often inhaled to improve sexual performance rather than
to get high.

## Harmful Effects of Inhalants

Chemicals in inhalants can harm the body in many ways, leading to health
problems such as:

      * Bone marrow damage
      * Coma
      * Hearing loss
      * Heart problems, such as irregular or fast heart rhythms
      * Loss of bowel and urinary control
      * Mood changes, such as not caring about anything (apathy), violent behavior, confusion, hallucinations, or depression
      * Permanent nerve problems, such as numbness, tingling of the hands and feet, weakness,Â and tremors 

Inhalants can also be deadly:

      * Irregular or fast heart rhythms can cause the heart to stop pumping blood to the rest of the body. This condition is called sudden sniffing death syndrome.
      * Suffocation can result when the lungs and brain DO NOT get enough oxygen. This can happen when the levels of chemical vapors are so high in the body that they take the place of oxygen in the blood. Suffocation can also happen if a plastic bag is put over the head when bagging (inhaling from a bag). 

People who inhale nitrites have a high chance of getting HIV/AIDS and
hepatitis B and C. This is because nitrites are used to improve sexual
performance. People who use nitrites may have unsafe sex.

Inhalants can cause birth defects when used during pregnancy.

## Inhalants can be Addictive

People who use inhalants can get addicted to them. This means their mind and
body are dependent on the inhalants. They are not able to control their use
and they need (crave) them to get through daily life.

Addiction can lead to tolerance. Tolerance means that more and more of the
inhalant is needed to get the same high feeling. And if the person tries to
stop using the inhalant, reactions may result. These are called withdrawal
symptoms and may include:

      * Strong cravings for the drug
      * Having mood swings from feeling depressed to agitated to anxious
      * Not able to concentrate 

Physical reactions may include headaches, aches and pains, increased appetite,
and not sleeping well.

## Signs That Someone is Using Inhalants

It is not always easy to tell if someone is using inhalants. Be alert for
these signs:

      * Breath or clothes smell like chemicals
      * Cough and runny nose all the time
      * Eyes are watery or pupils are wide open (dilated)
      * Feeling tired all the time
      * Hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations)
      * Hiding empty containers or rags around the house
      * Mood swings or being angry and irritable for no reason
      * No appetite, nausea and vomiting, weight loss
      * Paint or stains on the face, hands, or clothing
      * Rash or blisters on the face

## Treatment Options

Treatment begins with recognizing the problem. The next step is getting help
and support.

Treatment programs use behavior change techniques through counseling (talk
therapy). The goal is to help the person to understand their behavior and why
they use inhalants. Involving family and friends during counseling can help
support the person to keep them from going back to using (relapsing).

At this time, there is no medicine that can help reduce the use of inhalants
by blocking their effects. But, scientists are researching such medicines.

## Ongoing Recovery

As the person recovers, encourage the following to help prevent relapse:

      * Keep going to treatment sessions.
      * Find new activities and goals to replace the ones that involved inhalant use.
      * Exercise and eat healthy foods. Taking care of the body helps it heal from the harmful effects of inhalants.
      * Avoid triggers. These triggers can be people and friends the person used inhalants with. They can also be places, things, or emotions that can make the person want to use again. 

## Resources

Helpful resources include:

      * LifeRing -- lifering.org
      * Alliance for Consumer Education - Inhalant Abuse -- www.consumered.org/programs/inhalant-abuse-prevention
      * National Institute on Drug Abuse for Teens -- teens.drugabuse.gov/drug-facts/inhalants
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org
      * Partnership for Drug-Free Kids -- drugfree.org

For adults, your workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good
resource.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or someone you
know is addicted to inhalants and needs help stopping. Also call if you are
having withdrawal symptoms that concern you.

## Alternative Names

Substance abuse - inhalants; Drug abuse - inhalants; Drug use - inhalants;
Glue - inhalants

## References

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. What are inhalants.
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/inhalants/what-are-inhalants.
Updated July 2012. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Nguyen J, O'Brien C, Schapp S. Adolescent inhalant use prevention, assessment,
and treatment: A literature synthesis. _Int J Drug Policy_. 2016;31:15-24.
PMID: 26969125 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26969125.

Stager MM. Substance abuse. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 114.

## Review Date 4/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 09-17-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Inhalants

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

