Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001536.htm    
                                Description: Rett syndrome (RTT) is a disorder of the nervous system. This condition leads to developmental problems in children. It mostly affects language skills and hand use.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rett syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001536.htm

# Rett syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rett syndrome (RTT) is a disorder of the nervous system. This condition leads
to developmental problems in children. It mostly affects language skills and
hand use.

## Causes

RTT occurs almost always in girls. It may be diagnosed as autism or cerebral
palsy.

Most RTT cases are due to a problem in the gene called MECP2. This gene is on
the X chromosome. Females have 2 X chromosomes. Even when one chromosome has
this defect, the other X chromosome is normal enough for the child to survive.

Males born with this defective gene do not have a second X chromosome to make
up for the problem. Therefore, the defect usually results in miscarriage,
stillbirth, or very early death.

## Symptoms

An infant with RTT usually has normal development for the first 6 to 18
months. Symptoms range from mild to severe.

Symptoms may include:

      * Breathing problems, which may get worse with stress. Breathing is usually normal during sleep and abnormal while awake.
      * Change in development.
      * Excessive saliva and drooling.
      * Floppy arms and legs, which is frequently the first sign.
      * Intellectual disabilities and learning difficulties.
      * Scoliosis.
      * Shaky, unsteady, stiff gait or toe walking.
      * Seizures.
      * Slowing head growth beginning at 5 to 6 months of age.
      * Loss of normal sleep patterns.
      * Loss of purposeful hand movements: For example, the grasp used to pick up small objects is replaced by repetitive hand motions like hand wringing or constant placement of hands in mouth.
      * Loss of social engagement.
      * Ongoing, severe constipation and gastroesophageal reflux (GERD).
      * Poor circulation that can lead to cold and bluish arms and legs.
      * Severe language development problems.

NOTE: Problems with breathing patterns may be the most upsetting and difficult
symptom for parents to watch. Why they happen and what to do about them is not
well understood. Most experts recommend that parents remain calm through an
episode of irregular breathing like breath holding. It may help to remind
yourself that normal breathing always returns and that your child will become
used to the abnormal breathing pattern.

## Exams and Tests

Genetic testing may be done to look for the gene defect. But, since the defect
is not identified in everyone with the disease, the diagnosis of RTT is based
on symptoms.

There are several different types of RTT:

      * Atypical
      * Classical (meets the diagnostic criteria)
      * Provisional (some symptoms appear between ages 1 and 3) 

RTT is classified as atypical if:

      * It begins early (soon after birth) or late (beyond 18 months of age, sometimes as late as 3 or 4 years old)
      * Speech and hand skill problems are mild
      * If it appears in a boy (very rare) 

## Treatment

Treatment may include:

      * Help with feeding and diapering
      * Methods to treat constipation and GERD
      * Physical therapy to help prevent hand problems
      * Weight bearing exercises with scoliosis 

Supplemental feedings can help with slowed growth. A feeding tube may be
needed if the child breathes in (aspirates) food. A diet high in calories and
fat combined with feeding tubes can help increase weight and height. Weight
gain may improve alertness and social interaction.

Medicines may be used to treat seizures. Supplements may be tried for
constipation, alertness, or rigid muscles.

Stem cell therapy, alone or in combination with gene therapy, is another
hopeful treatment.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information on Rett syndrome:

      * International Rett Syndrome Foundation -- www.rettsyndrome.org
      * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-Sheets/Rett-Syndrome-Fact-Sheet
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/rett-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease slowly gets worse until the teen years. Then, symptoms may
improve. For example, seizures or breathing problems tend to lessen in the
late teens.

Developmental delays vary. Usually, a child with RTT sits up properly, but may
not crawl. For those who do crawl, many do so by scooting on their tummy
without using their hands.

Similarly, some children walk independently within the normal age range, while
others:

      * Are delayed
      * Do notÂ learn to walk independently at all
      * Do notÂ learn to walk until late childhood or early adolescence

For those children who do learn to walk at the normal time, some keep that
ability for their lifetime, while other children lose the skill.

Life expectancies are not well studied, although survival at least until the
mid-20s is likely. The average life expectancy for girls may be mid-40s. Death
is often related to seizure, aspiration pneumonia, malnutrition, and
accidents.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you:

      * Have any concerns about your child's development
      * Notice a lack of normal development with motor or language skills in your child
      * Think your child has a health problem that needs treatment 

## Alternative Names

RTT; Scoliosis - Rett syndrome; Intellectual disability - Rett syndrome

## References

Kwon JM. Neurodegenerative disorders of childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 599.

Mink JW. Congenital, developmental, and neurocutaneous disorders. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 417.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Rett Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RettSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Rett
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

