Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000099.htm    
                                Description: Your body needs cholesterol to work well. But cholesterol levels that are too high can harm you.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholesterol and lifestyle

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000099.htm

# Cholesterol and lifestyle

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your body needs cholesterol to work well. But cholesterol levels that are too
high can harm you.

Cholesterol is measured in milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). Extra cholesterol
in your blood builds up inside the walls of your blood vessels. This buildup
is called plaque, or atherosclerosis. Plaque reduces or stops blood flow. This
can cause a:

      * Heart attack
      * Stroke
      * Serious heart or blood vessel disease 

## Your Cholesterol Numbers

All men should have their blood cholesterol levels tested every 5 years,
starting at age 35 years. All women should do the same, starting at age 45
years. Many adults should have their blood cholesterol levels tested at a
younger age, possibly as early as age 20 years, if they have risk factors for
heart disease. Children with risk factors for heart disease should also have
their blood cholesterol levels checked. Some expert groups recommend
cholesterol testing for all children ages 9 to 11 and again between ages 17
and 21. Have your cholesterol checked more often (probably every year) if you
have:

      * Diabetes
      * Heart disease
      * Blood flow problems to your feet or legs
      * A history of stroke 

A blood cholesterol test measures the level of total cholesterol. This
includes HDL (good) cholesterol and LDL (bad) cholesterol.

Your LDL level is what health care providers watch most closely. You want it
to be low. If it gets too high, you will need to treat it.

Treatment includes:

      * Eating a healthy diet
      * Losing weight (if you are overweight)
      * Exercising 

You may also need medicine to lower your cholesterol.

You want your HDL cholesterol to be high. Exercise can help raise it.

## Eating Right

It is important to eat right, keep a healthy weight, and exercise, even if:

      * You do not have heart disease or diabetes.
      * Your cholesterol levels are in the normal range. 

These healthy habits may help prevent future heart attacks and other health
problems.

Eat foods that are low in fat. These include whole grains, fruits, and
vegetables. Using low-fat toppings, sauces, and dressings will help.

Look at food labels. Avoid foods that are high in saturated fat. Eating too
much of this type of fat can lead to heart disease.

      * Choose lean protein foods, such as soy, fish, skinless chicken, very lean meat, and fat-free or 1% dairy products.
      * Look for the words "hydrogenated", "partially hydrogenated", and "trans fats" on food labels. DO NOT eat foods with these words in the ingredients lists.
      * Limit how much fried food you eat.
      * Limit how many prepared baked goods (donuts, cookies, and crackers) you eat. They may contain a lot of fats that are not healthy.
      * Eat fewer egg yolks, hard cheeses, whole milk, cream, ice cream, and cholesterol and lifestyle.
      * Eat less fatty meat and smaller portions of meat, in general.
      * Use healthy ways to cook fish, chicken, and lean meats, such as broiling, grilling, poaching, and baking. 

Eat foods that are high in fiber. Good fibers to eat are oats, bran, split
peas and lentils, beans (kidney, black, and navy beans), some cereals, and
brown rice.

Learn how to shop for, and cook, foods that are healthy for your heart. Learn
how to read food labels to choose healthy foods. Stay away from fast foods,
where healthy choices can be hard to find.

Get plenty of exercise. And talk with your provider about what kinds of
exercises are best for you.

## Alternative Names

Hyperlipidemia - cholesterol and lifestyle; CAD - cholesterol and lifestyle;
Coronary artery disease - cholesterol and lifestyle; Heart disease -
cholesterol and lifestyle; Prevention - cholesterol and lifestyle;
Cardiovascular disease - cholesterol and lifestyle; Peripheral artery disease
- cholesterol and lifestyle; Stroke - cholesterol and lifestyle;
Atherosclerosis - cholesterol and lifestyle

## Images

      * ![Saturated fats](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19513t.jpg)Saturated fats

## References

American Diabetes Association. 9. Cardiovascular disease and risk management:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S86-S104. PMID: 29222380 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222380.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC Guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the
management of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2018. pii: S0735-1097(18)39034-X. PMID:
30423393 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30423393.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

Pencina MJ, Navar-Boggan AM, D'Agostino RB Sr, et al. Application of new
cholesterol guidelines to a population-based sample. _N Engl J Med_.
2014;370(15):1422-1431. PMID: 24645848 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24645848.

## Read More

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
      * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
      * Cardiac ablation procedures 
      * Carotid artery surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart failure - overview
      * Heart pacemaker
      * High blood cholesterol levels
      * High blood pressure - adults
      * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
      * Peripheral artery bypass - leg
      * Peripheral artery disease - legs

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
      * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
      * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
      * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart failure - discharge
      * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
      * Heart failure - home monitoring
      * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
      * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
      * How to read food labels
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Managing your blood sugar
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
03-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cholesterol
      * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
      * How to Lower Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

