Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000211.htm    
                                Description: Your body needs cholesterol to work properly. When you have extra cholesterol in your blood, it builds up inside the walls of your arteries (blood vessels), including the ones that go to your heart. This    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000211.htm

# Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your body needs cholesterol to work properly. When you have extra cholesterol
in your blood, it builds up inside the walls of your arteries (blood vessels),
including the ones that go to your heart. This buildup is called plaque.

Plaque narrows your arteries and slows or stops the blood flow. This can cause
a heart attack, stroke, or other serious heart disease.

![Plaque buildup in
arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19314.jpg)

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your cholesterol.

## Questions

What is my cholesterol level? What should my cholesterol level be?

      * What are HDL ("good") cholesterol and LDL ("bad") cholesterol?
      * Does my cholesterol need to be better?
      * How often should I have my cholesterol checked? 

What medicines am I taking to treat high cholesterol?

      * Do they have any side effects?
      * What should I do if I miss a dose?
      * Are there foods, other medicines, vitamins, or herbal supplements that may change how well my cholesterol medicines work? 

What is a heart-healthy diet?

      * What are low-fat foods?
      * What types of fat are OK for me to eat?
      * How can I read a food label to know how much fat there is?
      * Is it ever OK to eat something that is not heart healthy?
      * What are some ways to eat healthy when I go to a restaurant? Can I ever go to a fast-food restaurant again?
      * Do I need to limit how much salt I use? Can I use other spices to make my food taste good?
      * Is it OK to drink any alcohol? 

What can I do to stop smoking?

Should I start an exercise program?

      * Is it safe for me to exercise on my own?
      * Where should I exercise, inside or outside?
      * Which activities are better to start with?
      * Are there activities or exercises that are not safe for me?
      * Can I exercise most days?
      * How long and how hard can I exercise?
      * What symptoms may I need to watch out for? 

## Alternative Names

Hyperlipidemia - what to ask your doctor; What to ask your doctor about
cholesterol

## Images

      * ![Plaque buildup in arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19314t.jpg)Plaque buildup in arteries

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25
Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

## Read More

      * Familial hypercholesterolemia
      * Heart attack
      * High blood cholesterol levels

## Patient Instructions

      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
      * Dietary fats explained

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cholesterol
      * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
      * HDL: The "Good" Cholesterol
      * How to Lower Cholesterol
      * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

