Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000053.htm    
                                Description: An electrical injury is damage to the skin or internal organs when a person comes into direct contact with an electrical current.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Electrical injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000053.htm

# Electrical injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An electrical injury is damage to the skin or internal organs when a person
comes into direct contact with an electrical current.

## Considerations

The human body conducts electricity very well. That means electricity passes
very easily throughout the body. Direct contact with electrical current can be
deadly. While some electrical burns look minor, there still may be serious
internal damage, especially to the heart, muscles, or brain.

Electric current can cause injury in four ways:

      * Cardiac arrest due to the electrical effect on the heart
      * Muscle, nerve, and tissue destruction from a current passing through the body
      * Thermal burns from contact with the electrical source
      * Falling or injury after contact with electricity

## Causes

Electrical injury can be caused by:

      * Accidental contact with power outlets, power cords, orexposed parts of electrical appliances or wiring
      * Flashing of electric arcs from high-voltage power lines
      * Lightning
      * Machinery or occupational-related exposures
      * Young children biting or chewing on electrical cords, or poking metal objects into an electrical outlet
      * Electrical weapons (such as a Taser)

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on many things, including:

      * Type and strength of voltage
      * How long you were in contact with the electricity
      * How the electricity moved through your body
      * Your overall health

Symptoms may include:

      * Changes in alertness (consciousness)
      * Broken bones
      * Heart attack (chest, arm, neck, jaw, or back pain)
      * Headache
      * Problems with swallowing, vision, or hearing
      * Irregular heartbeat
      * Muscle spasms and pain
      * Numbness or tingling
      * Breathing problems or lung failure
      * Seizures
      * Skin burns

## First Aid

1\. If you can do so safely, turn off the electrical current. Unplug the cord,
remove the fuse from the fuse box, or turn off the circuit breakers. Simply
turning off an appliance may NOT stop the flow of electricity. Do NOT attempt
to rescue a person near active high-voltage lines.

2\. Call your local emergency number, such as 911.

3\. If the current can't be turned off, use a non-conducting object, such as a
broom, chair, rug, or rubber doormat to push the person away from the source
of the current. Do not use a wet or metal object. If possible, stand on
something dry that doesn't conduct electricity, such as a rubber mat or folded
newspapers.

4\. Once the person is away from the source of electricity, check the person's
airway, breathing, and pulse. If either has stopped or seems dangerously slow
or shallow, start first aid.

5\. CPR should be started if the person is unconscious and you can't feel a
pulse. Perform rescue breathing on a person who is unconscious and not
breathing or is breathing ineffectually.Â

6\. If the person has a burn, remove any clothing that comes off easily and
rinse the burned area in cool, running water until the pain subsides. Give
first aid for burns.

7\. If the person is faint, pale, or shows other signs of shock, lay him or
her down, with the head slightly lower than the trunk of the body and the legs
elevated, and cover him or her with a warm blanket or a coat.

8\. Stay with the person until medical help arrives.

9\. Electrical injury is frequently associated with explosions or falls that
can cause additional severe injuries. You may not be able to notice all of
them. Do not move the person's head or neck if the spine may be injured.

10\. If you are a passenger in a vehicle struck by a power line, remain in it
until help arrives unless a fire has started. If necessary, try to jump out of
the vehicle so that you do not maintain contact with it while also touching
the ground.Â

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT get within 20 feet (6 meters) of a person who is being electrocuted by high-voltage electrical current (such as power lines) until the power is turned off.
      * DO NOT touch the person with your bare hands if the body is still touching the source of electricity.
      * DO NOT apply ice, butter, ointments, medicines, fluffy cotton dressings, or adhesive bandages to a burn.
      * DO NOT remove dead skin or break blisters if the person has been burned.
      * After the power is shut off,Â DO NOT move the person unless there is an ongoingÂ risk, such as aÂ fire or explosion.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number, such as 911, if a person has been injured by
electricity.

## Prevention

      * Avoid electrical hazards at home and at work. Always follow the manufacturer's safety instructions when using electrical appliances.
      * Avoid using electrical appliances while showering or wet.
      * Keep children away from electrical devices, especially those that are plugged in to an electrical outlet.
      * Keep electrical cords out of children's reach.
      * Never touch electrical appliances while touching faucets or cold water pipes.
      * Teach children about the dangers of electricity.
      * Use child safety plugs in all electrical outlets.

## Alternative Names

Electrical shock

## Images

      * ![Shock](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17231t.jpg)Shock
      * ![Electrical injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9457t.jpg)Electrical injury

## References

O'Keefe KP, Semmons R. Lightning and electrical injuries. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 134.

Price LA, Loiacono LA. Electrical and lightning injury. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:1304-1312.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A lightning
bolt](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lightning_thumb.jpg)Electrical Injuries
_Read more_

![Wounds and
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WoundsandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Wounds
and Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

