Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000497.htm    
                                Description: A laceration is a cut that goes all the way through the skin. A small cut can be cared for at home. A large cut requires immediate medical attention.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lacerations - liquid bandage

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000497.htm

# Lacerations - liquid bandage

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A laceration is a cut that goes all the way through the skin. A small cut can
be cared for at home. A large cut requires immediate medical attention.

If the cut is minor, a liquid bandage (liquid adhesive) can be used on the cut
to close the wound and help stop bleeding.

Using a liquid bandage is quick to apply. It causes only slight burning when
applied. Liquid bandages seal the cut closed after only 1 application. There
is less chance for infection since the wound is sealed shut.

These products are waterproof, so you can shower or bathe without worry.

The seal lasts for 5 to 10 days. It will fall off naturally after it has done
its job. In some cases after the seal falls off, you can reapply more liquid
bandage, but only after seeking medical advice from your provider. But most
minor cuts will be mostly healed at this point.

Using these products may also help keep scars from forming at the injury site.
Liquid adhesives can be found at your local pharmacy.

## Applying and Caring for a Liquid Bandage

With clean hands or a clean towel, wash the area of the cut with cold water
and soap. Dry with a clean towel. Make sure the site is completely dry.

The liquid bandage should not be placed inside the wound, but on top of the
skin, where the cut comes together.

      * Create a seal by gently bringing the cut together with your fingers.
      * Apply the liquid bandage over the top of the cut. Spread it from one end of the cut to the other, covering the cut completely.
      * Hold the cut together for about a minute to give the adhesive enough time to dry. 

DO NOT use liquid bandage around the eyes, in the ear or nose, or internally
in the mouth. If the liquid is accidentally applied to any of these areas call
your health care provider or local emergency number (such as 911).

It is OK to bathe after the liquid adhesive has dried. Try not to scrub the
site. Doing so may loosen the seal or even remove the adhesive completely. It
is also OK to wash the site with soap and water daily to keep the area clean
and prevent infection. Pat the site dry after washing.

DO NOT use any other ointments on the site of the cut. This will weaken the
bond and slow the healing process.

DO NOT scratch or scrub the site. This will remove the liquid bandage.

Keep the following in mind:

      * Prevent the wound from reopening by keeping activity to a minimum.
      * Make sure your hands are clean when you care for the wound.
      * Take proper care of your wound to help reduce scarring.
      * Call your provider if you have questions or concerns about how to care for stitches or staples at home.
      * You can take pain medicine, such as acetaminophen, as directed for pain at the wound site.
      * Follow-up with your provider to make sure the wound is healing properly.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if:

      * There is any redness, pain, or yellow pus around the injury. This could mean there is an infection.
      * There is bleeding at the injury site that will not stop after 10 minutes of direct pressure.
      * You have new numbness or tingling around the wound area or beyond it.
      * You have a fever of 100Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher.
      * There is pain at the site that will not go away, even after taking pain medicine.
      * The wound has split open. 

## Alternative Names

Skin adhesives; Tissue adhesive; Skin cut - liquid bandage; Wound - liquid
bandage

## References

Beard JM, Osborn J. Common office procedures. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2011:chap 28.

Simon BC, Hern HG. Wound management principles. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 52.

## Review Date 1/10/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * First Aid
      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

