Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000038.htm    
                                Description: A Hemovac drain is placed under your skin during surgery. This drain removes any blood or other fluids that might build up in this area. You can go home with the drain still in place.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemovac drain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000038.htm

# Hemovac drain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Hemovac drain is placed under your skin during surgery. This drain removes
any blood or other fluids that might build up in this area. You can go home
with the drain still in place.

## What to Expect at Home

Your nurse will tell you how often you need to empty the drain. You will also
be shown how to empty and take care of your drain. The following instructions
will help you at home. If you have questions, ask your health care provider.

## Emptying Your Drain

Items you will need are:

      * A measuring cup
      * A pen and a piece of paper 

To empty your drain:

      * Clean your hands well with soap and water or an alcohol-based cleanser.
      * Unpin the Hemovac drain from your clothes.
      * Remove the stopper or plug from the spout. The Hemovac container will expand. DO NOT let the stopper or the top of the spout touch anything. If it does, clean the stopper with alcohol.
      * Pour all of the liquid from the container into the measuring cup. You may need to turn the container over 2 or 3 times so that all the fluid comes out.
      * Place the container on a clean, flat surface. Press down on the container with one hand until it is flat.
      * With the other hand, put the stopper back into the spout.
      * Pin the Hemovac drain back onto your clothes.
      * Write down the date, time, and the amount of fluid you poured. Bring this information with you to your first follow-up visit after you are discharged from the hospital.
      * Pour the fluid into the toilet and flush.
      * Wash your hands again. 

## Changing Your Dressing

A dressing may be covering your drain. If not, keep the area around the drain
clean with soapy water, when you are in the shower or during a sponge bath.
Ask your nurse if you are allowed to shower with the drain in place.

Items you will need are:

      * Two pairs of clean, unused medical gloves
      * Five or six cotton swabs
      * Gauze pads
      * Clean soapy water
      * Plastic trash bag
      * Surgical tape
      * Waterproof pad or bath towel 

To change the dressing:

      * Clean your hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand cleanser.
      * Put on clean medical gloves.
      * Loosen the tape carefully, and take off the old bandage. Throw the old bandage into a plastic trash bag.
      * Inspect your skin where the drainage tube comes out. Look for any new redness, swelling, bad odor, or pus.
      * Use a cotton swab dipped in the soapy water to clean the skin around the drain. Do this 3 or 4 times, using a new swab each time.
      * Take off the first pair of gloves and put them in the plastic trash bag. Put on the second pair.
      * Place a new bandage over the skin where the drainage tube comes out. Tape the bandage to your skin using surgical tape. Then tape the tubing to the bandages.
      * Throw all used supplies in the trash bag.
      * Wash your hands again. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

      * The stitches that hold the drain to your skin are coming loose or are missing.
      * The tube falls out.
      * Your temperature is 100.5Â°F (38.0Â°C) or higher.
      * Your skin is very red where the tube comes out (a small amount of redness is normal).
      * Fluid drains from the skin around the tube site.
      * There is more tenderness and swelling at the drain site.
      * The liquid is cloudy or has a bad odor.
      * The amount of liquid increases for more than 2 days in a row.
      * Fluid suddenly stops draining after there has been constant drainage. 

## Alternative Names

Surgical drain; Hemovac drain - caring for; Hemovac drain - emptying; Hemovac
drain - changing dressing

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery
      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

