Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000739.htm    
                                Description: A wound care center, or clinic, is a medical facility for treating wounds that doÂ not heal. You may have a non-healing wound if it:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wound care centers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000739.htm

# Wound care centers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A wound care center, or clinic, is a medical facility for treating wounds that
doÂ not heal. You may have a non-healing wound if it:

      * HasÂ not started to heal in 2 weeks
      * HasÂ not completely healed in 6 weeks 

## Causes

Common types of non-healing wounds include:

      * Pressure sores
      * Surgical wounds
      * Radiation sores
      * Foot ulcers due to diabetes, poor blood flow, or swollen legs 

Certain wounds may not heal well due to:

      * Diabetes
      * Poor circulation
      * Nerve damage
      * Being inactive or immobile
      * Weak immune system
      * Poor nutrition
      * Excess alcohol use
      * Smoking 

Non-healing wounds may take months to heal. Some wounds never heal completely.

## Your Wound Care Team

When you go to a wound clinic, you will work with a team of health care
providers trained in wound care. Your team may include:

      * Doctors who oversee your care
      * Nurses who clean and dress your wound and teach you how to care for it at home
      * Physical therapists who help with wound care and work with you to help you stay mobile 

Your providers will also keep your primary care physician up to date on your
progress and treatment.

## What to Expect at a Wound Care Center

Your wound care team will:

      * Examine and measure your wound
      * Check the blood flow in the area around the wound
      * Determine why it's not healing
      * Create a treatment plan 

Treatment goals include:

      * Healing the wound
      * Preventing the wound from getting worse or becoming infected
      * Preventing limb loss
      * Preventing new wounds from occurring or old wounds from coming back
      * Helping you stay mobile 

In order to treat your wound, your provider will clean out the wound and apply
dressing. You also may have other types of treatment to help it heal.

### Debridement

Debridement is the process of removing dead skin and tissue. This tissue must
be removed to help your wound heal. There are many ways to do this. You may
need to have general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) for debridement of a
large wound.

Surgical debridement uses a scalpel, scissors, or other sharp tools. During
the procedure, your doctor will:

      * Clean the skin around the wound
      * Probe the wound to see how deep it is
      * Cut away the dead tissue
      * Clean the wound 

Your wound may seem bigger and deeper after debridement. The area will be red
or pink in color and look like fresh meat.

Other ways to remove dead or infected tissue are to:

      * Sit or place your limb in a whirlpool bath.
      * Use a syringe to wash away dead tissue.
      * Apply wet-to-dry dressings to the area. A wet dressing is applied to the wound and allowed to dry. As it dries, it absorbs some of the dead tissue. The dressing is wet again and then gently pulled off along with dead tissue.
      * Put special chemicals, called enzymes, on your wound. These dissolve dead tissue from the wound. 

After the wound is clean, your doctor will apply a dressing to keep the wound
moist and help prevent infection. There are many different types of dressings,
including:

      * Gels
      * Foams
      * Gauze
      * Films 

Your provider may use one or multiple types of dressings as your wound heals.

### Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy

Depending on the type of wound, your doctor may recommend hyperbaric oxygen
therapy. Oxygen is important for healing.

During this treatment, you sit inside a special chamber. The air pressure
inside the chamber is about two and a half times greater than the normal
pressure in the atmosphere. This pressure helps your blood carry more oxygen
to organs and tissues in your body. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy can help some
wounds heal faster.

### Other Treatments

Your providers may recommend other types of treatment, including:

      *  **Compression stockings** \-- tight-fitting stockings or wraps that improve blood flow and help with healing.
      *  **Ultrasound --** using sound waves to aid healing.
      *  **Artificial skin --** a "fake skin" that covers the wound for days at a time as it heals.
      *  **Negative pressure therapy --** pulling the air out of a closed dressing, creating a vacuum. The negative pressure improves blood flow and pulls out excess fluid.
      *  **Growth factor therapy --** materials produced by the body that helps wound-healing cells grow. 

You will receive treatment at the wound center every week or more, depending
on your treatment plan.

## Follow-up Care

Your providers will give you instructions on caring for your wound at home in
between visits. Depending on your needs, you may also receive help with:

      * Healthy eating, so you get the nutrients you need to heal
      * Diabetes care
      * Smoking cessation
      * Pain management
      * Physical therapy 

## When to Call Your Doctor

You should call your doctor if you notice signs of infection, such as:

      * Redness
      * Swelling
      * Pus or bleeding from the wound
      * Pain that gets worse
      * Fever
      * Chills 

## Alternative Names

Pressure ulcer - wound care center; Decubitus ulcer - wound care center;
Diabetic ulcer - wound care center; Surgical wound - wound center; Ischemic
ulcer - wound center

## References

de Leon J, Bohn GA, DiDomenico L, et al. Wound care centers: critical thinking
and treatment strategies for wounds. _Wounds_. 2016;28(10):S1-S23. PMID:
28682298 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28682298.

Marston WA. Wound care. In: Cronenwett JL, Johnston KW, eds. _Rutherford's
Vascular Surgery_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 83.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Facilities
      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

