Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000024.htm    
                                Description: Â A crush injury occurs when force or pressure is put on a body part. This type of injury most often happens when part of the body is squeezed betweenÂ two heavy objects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crush injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000024.htm

# Crush injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Â A crush injury occurs when force or pressure is put on a body part. This
type of injury most often happens when part of the body is squeezed betweenÂ
two heavy objects.

Damage related to crush injuries include:

      * Bleeding
      * Bruising
      * Compartment syndrome (increased pressure in an arm or leg that causes serious muscle, nerve, blood vessel, and tissue damage)
      * Fracture
      * Laceration (open wound)
      * Nerve injury
      * Secondary infection
      * Smashed fingers
      * Wounds

## First Aid

Steps for first aid treatment of a crush injury are:

      * Stop bleeding by applying direct pressure.
      * Cover the area with a wet cloth or bandage. Then, raise the area above the level of the heart, if possible.
      * If there is suspicion of a head, neck, or spinal injury, immobilize those areas if possible and then limit movement to only the crushed area.
      * Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or local hospital for further advice. 

Crush injuries most often need to be evaluated in a hospital emergency
department. Surgery may be needed.

## References

Ingrassia PL, Mangini M, Ragazzoni L, Djatali A, Della Corte F. Introduction
to structural collapse (crush injury and crush syndrome). In: Ciottone GR, ed.
_Ciottone's Disaster Medicine._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
180.

Tang N, Bright L. Tactical emergency medical support and urban search and
rescue. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency
Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap e4.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Wounds and
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WoundsandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Wounds
and Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

